---
title: Custom templates for dotnet new
description: Learn about custom templates for any type of .NET project or files.
author: adegeo
ms.date: 05/20/2020
---

# Custom templates for dotnet new

The [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) comes with many templates already installed and ready for you to use. The [`dotnet new` command](dotnet-new.md) isn't only the way to use a template, but also how to install and uninstall templates. You can create your own custom templates for any type of project, such as an app, service, tool, or class library. You can even create a template that outputs one or more independent files, such as a configuration file.

You can install custom templates from a NuGet package on any NuGet feed, by referencing a NuGet *.nupkg* file directly, or by specifying a file system directory that contains the template. The template engine offers features that allow you to replace values, include and exclude files, and execute custom processing operations when your template is used.

The template engine is open source, and the online code repository is at [dotnet/templating](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/) on GitHub. More templates, including templates from third parties, can be found using [`dotnet new search`](dotnet-new-search.md). For more information about creating and using custom templates, see [How to create your own templates for dotnet new](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/how-to-create-your-own-templates-for-dotnet-new/) and the [dotnet/templating GitHub repo Wiki](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki).

> [!NOTE]
> Template examples are available at the [dotnet/dotnet-template-samples](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-template-samples) GitHub repository. However, while these examples are good resource for learning how the templates work, the repository is archived and no longer maintained. The examples may be out of date and no longer working.

To follow a walkthrough and create a template, see the [Create a custom template for dotnet new](../tutorials/cli-templates-create-item-template.md) tutorial.

## .NET default templates

When you install the [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download), you receive over a dozen built-in templates for creating projects and files, including console apps, class libraries, unit test projects, ASP.NET Core apps (including [Angular](https://angular.io/) and [React](https://reactjs.org/) projects), and configuration files. To list the built-in templates, run the `dotnet new list` command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new list
```

## Configuration

A template is composed of the following parts:

- Source files and folders.
- A configuration file (*template.json*).

### Source files and folders

The source files and folders include whatever files and folders you want the template engine to use when the `dotnet new <TEMPLATE>` command is run. The template engine is designed to use *runnable projects* as source code to produce projects. This has several benefits:

- The template engine doesn't require you to inject special tokens into your project's source code.
- The code files aren't special files or modified in any way to work with the template engine. So, the tools you normally use when working with projects also work with template content.
- You build, run, and debug your template projects just like you do for any of your other projects.
- You can quickly create a template from an existing project just by adding a *./.template.config/template.json* configuration file to the project.

Files and folders stored in the template aren't limited to formal .NET project types. Source files and folders may consist of any content that you wish to create when the template is used, even if the template engine produces just one file as its output.

Files generated by the template can be modified based on logic and settings you've provided in the *template.json* configuration file. The user can override these settings by passing options to the `dotnet new <TEMPLATE>` command. A common example of custom logic is providing a name for a class or variable in the code file that's deployed by a template.

### template.json

The *template.json* file is placed in a *.template.config* folder in the root directory of the template. The file provides configuration information to the template engine. The minimum configuration requires the members shown in the following table, which is sufficient to create a functional template.

| Member            | Type          | Description |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| `$schema`         | URI           | The JSON schema for the *template.json* file. Editors that support JSON schemas enable JSON-editing features when the schema is specified. For example, [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) requires this member to enable IntelliSense. Use a value of `http://json.schemastore.org/template`. |
| `author`          | string        | The author of the template. |
| `classifications` | array(string) | Zero or more characteristics of the template that a user might use to find the template when searching for it. The classifications also appear in the *Tags* column when it appears in a list of templates produced by using the `dotnet new list` command. |
| `identity`        | string        | A unique name for this template. |
| `name`            | string        | The name for the template that users should see. |
| `shortName`       | string        | A default shorthand name for selecting the template that applies to environments where the template name is specified by the user, not selected via a GUI. For example, the short name is useful when using templates from a command prompt with CLI commands. |
| `sourceName`       | string        | The name in the source tree to replace with the name the user specifies. The template engine will look for any occurrence of the `sourceName` mentioned in the config file and replace it in file names and file contents. The value to be replaced with can be given using the `-n` or `--name` options while running a template. If no name is specified, the current directory is used.|
| `preferNameDirectory`       | Boolean        | Indicates whether to create a directory for the template if name is specified but an output directory isn't set (instead of creating the content directly in the current directory). The default value is false.|

The full schema for the *template.json* file is found at the [JSON Schema Store](http://json.schemastore.org/template). For more information about the *template.json* file, see the [dotnet templating wiki](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki). For deeper examples and information on how to make your templates visible in Visual Studio, check out the [resources that Sayed Hashimi has created](https://github.com/sayedihashimi/template-sample).

#### Example

For example, here's a template folder that contains two content files: *console.cs* and *readme.txt*. There's also the required folder named *.template.config* that contains the *template.json* file.

```text
└───mytemplate
    │   console.cs
    │   readme.txt
    │
    └───.template.config
            template.json
```

The *template.json* file looks like the following:

```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json.schemastore.org/template",
  "author": "Travis Chau",
  "classifications": [ "Common", "Console" ],
  "identity": "AdatumCorporation.ConsoleTemplate.CSharp",
  "name": "Adatum Corporation Console Application",
  "shortName": "adatumconsole"
}
```

The *mytemplate* folder is an installable template package. Once the package is installed, the `shortName` can be used with the `dotnet new` command. For example, `dotnet new adatumconsole` would output the `console.cs` and `readme.txt` files to the current folder.

### Template localization
The .NET templates are localizable. If a template is localized for the language matching the current locale, its elements will appear in the same language as the CLI. Localization is optional when creating new templates.

The localizable elements on a template are:
- Name
- Author
- Description
- Symbols
  - Description
  - Display Name
  - Descriptions and Diplay name of choices for choice paramemters 
- Post actions
  - description
  - Manual instructions

Localization files have a JSON format, and just one file per culture should exist. The naming convention is: `templatestrings.<lang code>.json`, where `lang code` corresponds to one of the [CultureInfo](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.globalization.cultureinfo.name) options. All localization files should be inside the `.template-config\localize` folder.

The localization JSON consists of key value pairs:
- The key is the reference to an element of `template.json` to be localized. If the element is a child, use the full path with a `/` delimiter.
- The value is the localization string of the element given by the key.

For more information about localizing templates, see the [dotnet templating wiki's localization page](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Localization).

#### Example
For example, here's *template.json* file with some localiable fields:
```JSON
{
  "$schema": "http://json.schemastore.org/template",
  "author": "Microsoft",
  "classifications": "Config",
  "name": "EditorConfig file",
  "description": "Creates an .editorconfig file for configuring code style preferences.",
  "symbols": {
    "Empty": {
      "type": "parameter",
      "datatype": "bool",
      "defaultValue": "false",
      "displayName": "Empty",
      "description": "Creates empty .editorconfig instead of the defaults for .NET."
    }
  }
}
```

And some fields are to be localizes to Brazilian Portuguese. The filename will be `templatestrings.pt-BR.json` to match the culture, and it would look like:

```JSON
{
  "author": "Microsoft",
  "name": "Arquivo EditorConfig",
  "description": "Cria um arquivo .editorconfig para configurar as preferências de estilo de código.",
  "symbols/Empty/displayName": "Vazio",
  "symbols/Empty/description": "Cria .editorconfig vazio em vez dos padrões para .NET."
}
```

## Pack a template into a NuGet package (nupkg file)

A custom template is packed with the [dotnet pack](dotnet-pack.md) command and a *.csproj* file. Alternatively, [NuGet](/nuget/tools/nuget-exe-cli-reference) can be used with the [nuget pack](/nuget/tools/cli-ref-pack) command along with a *.nuspec* file. However, NuGet requires the .NET Framework on Windows and [Mono](https://www.mono-project.com/) on Linux and macOS.

The *.csproj* file is slightly different from a traditional code-project *.csproj* file. Note the following settings:

01. The `<PackageType>` setting is added and set to `Template`.
01. The `<PackageVersion>` setting is added and set to a valid [NuGet version number](/nuget/reference/package-versioning).
01. The `<PackageId>` setting is added and set to a unique identifier. This identifier is used to uninstall the template pack and is used by NuGet feeds to register your template pack.
01. Generic metadata settings should be set: `<Title>`, `<Authors>`, `<Description>`, and `<PackageTags>`.
01. The `<TargetFramework>` setting must be set, even though the binary produced by the template process isn't used. In the example below it's set to `netstandard2.0`.

A template package, in the form of a *.nupkg* NuGet package, requires that all templates be stored in the *content* folder within the package. There are a few more settings to add to a *.csproj* file to ensure that the generated *.nupkg* can be installed as a template pack:

01. The `<IncludeContentInPack>` setting is set to `true` to include any file the project sets as **content** in the NuGet package.
01. The `<IncludeBuildOutput>` setting is set to `false` to exclude all binaries generated by the compiler from the NuGet package.
01. The `<ContentTargetFolders>` setting is set to `content`. This makes sure that the files set as **content** are stored in the *content* folder in the NuGet package. This folder in the NuGet package is parsed by the dotnet template system.

An easy way to exclude all code files from being compiled by your template project is by using the `<Compile Remove="**\*" />` item in your project file, inside an `<ItemGroup>` element.

An easy way to structure your template pack is to put all templates in individual folders, and then each template folder inside of a *templates* folder that is located in the same directory as your *.csproj* file. This way, you can use a single project item to include all files and folders in the *templates* as **content**. Inside of an `<ItemGroup>` element, create a `<Content Include="templates\**\*" Exclude="templates\**\bin\**;templates\**\obj\**" />` item.

Here's an example *.csproj* file that follows all of the guidelines above. It packs the *templates* child folder to the *content* package folder and excludes any code file from being compiled.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <PackageType>Template</PackageType>
    <PackageVersion>1.0</PackageVersion>
    <PackageId>AdatumCorporation.Utility.Templates</PackageId>
    <Title>AdatumCorporation Templates</Title>
    <Authors>Me</Authors>
    <Description>Templates to use when creating an application for Adatum Corporation.</Description>
    <PackageTags>dotnet-new;templates;contoso</PackageTags>
    <TargetFramework>netstandard2.0</TargetFramework>

    <IncludeContentInPack>true</IncludeContentInPack>
    <IncludeBuildOutput>false</IncludeBuildOutput>
    <ContentTargetFolders>content</ContentTargetFolders>
  </PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <Content Include="templates\**\*" Exclude="templates\**\bin\**;templates\**\obj\**" />
    <Compile Remove="**\*" />
  </ItemGroup>

</Project>
```

The example below demonstrates the file and folder structure of using a *.csproj* to create a template package. The *MyDotnetTemplates.csproj* file and *templates* folder are both located at the root of a directory named *project_folder*. The *templates* folder contains two templates, *mytemplate1* and *mytemplate2*. Each template has content files and a *.template.config* folder with a *template.json* config file.

```text
project_folder
│   MyDotnetTemplates.csproj
│
└───templates
    ├───mytemplate1
    │   │   console.cs
    │   │   readme.txt
    │   │
    │   └───.template.config
    │           template.json
    │
    └───mytemplate2
        │   otherfile.cs
        │
        └───.template.config
                template.json
```

> [!NOTE]
> To ensure that the template package appears in `dotnet new search` result, set [the NuGet package type](/nuget/create-packages/set-package-type) to `Template`.

## Install a template package

Use the [dotnet new install](dotnet-new-install.md) command to install a template package.

### To install a template package from a NuGet package stored at nuget.org

Use the NuGet package identifier to install a template package.

```dotnetcli
dotnet new install <NUGET_PACKAGE_ID>
```

### To install a template package from a custom NuGet source

Provide a custom NuGet source (for example, `https://api.my-custom-nuget.com/v3/index.json`).

```dotnetcli
dotnet new --install <NUGET_PACKAGE_ID> --nuget-source <SOURCE>
```

### To install a template package from a local nupkg file

Provide the path to a *.nupkg* NuGet package file.

```dotnetcli
dotnet new install <PATH_TO_NUPKG_FILE>
```

### To install a template package from a file system directory

Templates can be installed from a template folder, such as the *mytemplate1* folder from the previous example. Specify the folder path of the *.template.config* folder. The path to the template directory doesn't need to be absolute.

```dotnetcli
dotnet new install <FILE_SYSTEM_DIRECTORY>
```

## Get a list of installed template packages

The uninstall command, without any other parameters, will list all installed template packages and included templates.

```dotnetcli
dotnet new uninstall
```

That command returns something similar to the following output:

```console
Currently installed items:
   Microsoft.Azure.WebJobs.ProjectTemplates
      Version: 4.0.1942
      Details:
         Author: Microsoft
         NuGetSource: https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json
      Templates:
         Azure Functions (func) C#
         Azure Functions (func) F#
      Uninstall Command:
         dotnet new uninstall Microsoft.Azure.WebJobs.ProjectTemplates
...
```

The first level of items after `Currently installed items:` are the identifiers used in uninstalling a template package. And in the previous example, `Microsoft.Azure.WebJobs.ProjectTemplates` is listed. If the template package was installed by using a file system path, this identifier will be the folder path of the *.template.config* folder. Only the template packages installed via `dotnet new install` are shown in the list. The template packages that are built into the .NET SDK aren't shown.

## Uninstall a template package

Use the [dotnet new uninstall](dotnet-new-uninstall.md) command to uninstall a template package.

If the package was installed by either a NuGet feed or by a *.nupkg* file directly, provide the identifier.

```dotnetcli
dotnet new uninstall <NUGET_PACKAGE_ID>
```

If the package was installed by specifying a path to the *.template.config* folder, use that path to uninstall the package. You can see the absolute path of the template package in the output provided by the `dotnet new uninstall` command. For more information, see the [Get a list of installed templates](#get-a-list-of-installed-template-packages) section.

```dotnetcli
dotnet new uninstall <FILE_SYSTEM_DIRECTORY>
```

## Create a project using a custom template

After a template is installed, use the template by executing the `dotnet new <TEMPLATE>` command as you would with any other pre-installed template. You can also specify [options](dotnet-new.md#options) to the `dotnet new` command, including template-specific options you configured in the template settings. Supply the template's short name directly to the command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new <TEMPLATE>
```

## See also

- [Create a custom template for dotnet new (tutorial)](../tutorials/cli-templates-create-item-template.md)
- [dotnet/templating GitHub repo Wiki](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki)
- [dotnet/dotnet-template-samples GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-template-samples)
- [How to create your own templates for dotnet new](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/how-to-create-your-own-templates-for-dotnet-new/)
- [*template.json* schema at the JSON Schema Store](http://json.schemastore.org/template)
