---
title: dotnet format command
description: The dotnet format command formats code to match EditorConfig settings for the current directory.
ms.date: 07/12/2021
---
# dotnet format

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 6.x SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet format` - Formats code to match `editorconfig` settings.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet format [<PROJECT | SOLUTION>] [command] [options]

dotnet format -h|--help
```

## Description

`dotnet format` is a code formatter that applies style preferences and static analysis recommendations to a project or solution. Preferences will be read from an *.editorconfig* file, if present, otherwise a default set of preferences will be used. For more information, see the [EditorConfig documentation](../../fundamentals/code-analysis/configuration-files.md#editorconfig).

## Arguments

`PROJECT | SOLUTION`

The MSBuild project or solution to run code formatting on. If a project or solution file is not specified, MSBuild searches the current working directory for a file that has a file extension that ends in *proj* or *sln*, and uses that file.

## Options

None of the options below are required for the `dotnet format` command to succeed, but you can use them to further customize what is formatted and by which rules.

* **`--diagnostics <DIAGNOSTICS>`**

  A space-separated list of diagnostic IDs to use as a filter when fixing code style or third-party issues. Default value is whichever IDs are listed in the *.editorconfig* file. For a list of built-in analyzer rule IDs that you can specify, see the [list of IDs for code-analysis style rules](../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/index.md).

* **`--severity`**

  The minimum severity of diagnostics to fix. Allowed values are `info`, `warn`, and `error`. The default value is `warn`.

* **`--no-restore`**

  Doesn't execute an implicit restore before formatting. Default is to do implicit restore.

* **`--verify-no-changes`**

  Verifies that no formatting changes would be performed. Terminates with a non zero exit code if any files would have been formatted.

* **`--include <INCLUDE>`**

  A space-separated list of relative file or folder paths to include in formatting. The default is all files in the solution or project.

* **`--exclude <EXCLUDE>`**

  A space-separated list of relative file or folder paths to exclude from formatting. The default is none.

* **`--include-generated`**

  Formats files generated by the SDK.

* **`-v|--verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Sets the verbosity level. Allowed values are `q[uiet]`, `m[inimal]`, `n[ormal]`, `d[etailed]`, and `diag[nostic]`. Default value is `m[inimal]`.

* **`--binarylog <BINARY-LOG-PATH>`**

  Logs all project or solution load information to a binary log file.

* **`--report <REPORT-PATH>`**

  Produces a JSON report in the directory specified by `<REPORT_PATH>`.

* **`-h|--help`**

  Shows help and usage information

## Subcommands

### Whitespace

`dotnet format whitespace` - Formats code to match `editorconfig` settings for whitespace.

#### Description

The `dotnet format whitespace` subcommand only runs formatting rules associated with whitespace formatting. For a complete list of possible formatting options that you can specify in your *.editorconfig* file, see the [C# formatting options](../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/csharp-formatting-options.md).

#### Options

* **`--folder`**

  Treat the `<PROJECT | SOLUTION>` argument as a path to a simple folder of code files.

### Style

`dotnet format style` - Formats code to match EditorConfig settings for code style.

#### Description

The `dotnet format style` subcommand only runs formatting rules associated with code style formatting. For a complete list of formatting options that you can specify in your `editorconfig` file, see [Code style rules](../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/index.md).

#### Options

* **`--diagnostics <DIAGNOSTICS>`**

  A space-separated list of diagnostic IDs to use as a filter when fixing code style issues. Default value is whichever IDs are listed in the *.editorconfig* file. For a list of built-in code style analyzer rule IDs that you can specify, see the [list of IDs for code-analysis style rules](../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/index.md).

* **`--severity`**

  The minimum severity of diagnostics to fix. Allowed values are `info`, `warn`, and `error`. The default value is `warn`

### Analyzers

`dotnet format analyzers` - Formats code to match `editorconfig` settings for analyzers (excluding code style rules).

#### Description

The `dotnet format analyzers` subcommand only runs formatting rules associated with analyzers. For a list of analyzer rules that you can specify in your `editorconfig` file, see [Quality rules](../../fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/index.md).

##### Options

* **`--diagnostics <DIAGNOSTICS>`**

  A space-separated list of diagnostic IDs to use as a filter when fixing non code style issues. Default value is whichever IDs are listed in the *.editorconfig* file. For a list of built-in analyzer rule IDs that you can specify, see the [list of IDs for quality rules](../../fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/index.md). For third-party analyzers refer to their documentation.

* **`--severity`**

  The minimum severity of diagnostics to fix. Allowed values are `info`, `warn`, and `error`. The default value is `warn`.

## Examples

* Format all code in the solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet format ./solution.sln
  ```

* Clean up all code in the application project:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet format ./src/application.csproj
  ```

* Verify that all code is correctly formatted:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet format --verify-no-changes
  ```

* Clean up all code in the *src* and *tests* directory but not in *src/submodule-a*:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet format --include ./src/ ./tests/ --exclude ./src/submodule-a/
  ```

* Fix a specific **code style** issue:  

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet format style --diagnostics IDE0005 --severity info
  ```

* Fix all **code style** issues that have severity `info`, `warning` or `error`:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet format style --severity info
  ```

* Fix a specific (non code style) analyzer issue:

  ```dotnetcli  
  dotnet format analyzers --diagnostics CA1831 --severity warn
  ```

* Fix all non code style issues that have severity `info`, `warning` or `error`:  

  ```dotnetcli  
  dotnet format analyzers --severity info
  ```  
