docs/core/tools/dotnet-sln.md, before:

---
title: dotnet sln command
description: The dotnet-sln command provides a convenient option to add, remove, and list projects in a solution file.
ms.date: 03/26/2025
---
# dotnet sln

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 3.1 SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet sln` - Lists or modifies the projects in a .NET solution file, or migrates the file to an *.slnx* file.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] [command]

dotnet sln [command] -h|--help
```

## Description

The `dotnet sln` command provides a convenient way to list and modify projects in a solution file.

### Create a solution file

To use the `dotnet sln` command, the solution file must already exist. If you need to create one, use the [dotnet new](dotnet-new.md) command with the `sln` template name.

The following example creates a *.sln* file in the current folder, with the same name as the folder:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new sln
```

The following example creates a *.sln* file in the current folder, with the specified file name:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new sln --name MySolution
```

The following example creates a *.sln* file in the specified folder, with the same name as the folder:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new sln --output MySolution
```

## Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file to use (either an *.sln* or *.slnx* file).

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* or *.slnx* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

## Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

## Commands

The following commands are available:

- [`list`](#list)
- [`add`](#add)
- [`remove`](#remove)
- [`migrate`](#migrate)

### `list`

Lists all projects in a solution file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln list [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file (*.sln* or *.slnx* file) or [solution filter](/visualstudio/msbuild/solution-filters) (*.slnf* file) to use.

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln*, *.slnx*, or *.slnf* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files or filters are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

  (Support for *.slnf* files was added in .NET SDK 9.0.3xx.)

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

### `add`

Adds one or more projects to the solution file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] add [--in-root] [-s|--solution-folder <PATH>] <PROJECT_PATH> [<PROJECT_PATH>...]
dotnet sln add [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file to use (either an *.sln* or *.slnx* file).

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* or *.slnx* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

- **`PROJECT_PATH`**

  The path to the project or projects to add to the solution. Unix/Linux shell [globbing pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) expansions are processed correctly by the `dotnet sln` command.

  If `PROJECT_PATH` includes folders that contain the project folder, that portion of the path is used to create [solution folders](/visualstudio/ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio#solution-folder). For example, the following commands create a solution with `myapp` in solution folder `folder1/folder2`:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet new sln
  dotnet new console --output folder1/folder2/myapp
  dotnet sln add folder1/folder2/myapp
  ```

  You can override this default behavior by using the `--in-root` or the `-s|--solution-folder <PATH>` option.

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

- **`--in-root`**

  Places the projects in the root of the solution, rather than creating a [solution folder](/visualstudio/ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio#solution-folder). Can't be used with `-s|--solution-folder`.

- **`-s|--solution-folder <PATH>`**

  The destination [solution folder](/visualstudio/ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio#solution-folder) path to add the projects to. Can't be used with `--in-root`.

### `remove`

Removes a project or multiple projects from the solution file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] remove <PROJECT_PATH|PROJECT_NAME> [<PROJECT_PATH|PROJECT_NAME>...]
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] remove [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file to use (either an *.sln* or *.slnx* file).

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* or *.slnx* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

- **`PROJECT_PATH` or `PROJECT_NAME`**

  The path to, or name of, the project or projects to remove from the solution. Unix/Linux shell [globbing pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) expansions are processed correctly by the `dotnet sln` command.

  If a project name is provided instead of a path, the project in the solution that matches the name, regardless of its path, is removed. If more than one matching project is found in the solution, the command errors out. Omit the project file extension in the name. (Support for removing projects by name was added in .NET 10.)

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

### `migrate`

Generates an *.slnx* solution file from an *.sln* file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] migrate
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] migrate [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The *.sln* solution file to migrate.

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple *.sln* files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

  If you specify an *.slnx* file instead of an *.sln* file, or if an *.slnx* file with the same file name (minus the *.sln* extension) already exists in the directory, the command fails.

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

## Examples

- List the projects in a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx list
  ```

- Add a C# project to a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln add todo-app/todo-app.csproj
  ```

- Remove a C# project from a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln remove todo-app/todo-app.csproj
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to the root of a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add todo-app/todo-app.csproj back-end/back-end.csproj --in-root
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add todo-app/todo-app.csproj back-end/back-end.csproj
  ```

- Remove multiple C# projects from a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx remove todo-app/todo-app.csproj back-end/back-end.csproj
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to a solution using a globbing pattern (Unix/Linux only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add **/*.csproj
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to a solution using a globbing pattern (Windows PowerShell only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add (ls -r **/*.csproj)
  ```

- Remove multiple C# projects from a solution using a globbing pattern (Unix/Linux only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx remove **/*.csproj
  ```

- Remove multiple C# projects from a solution using a globbing pattern (Windows PowerShell only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx remove (ls -r **/*.csproj)
  ```

- Generate an *.slnx* file from a *.sln* file:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.sln migrate
  ```

- Create a solution, a console app, and two class libraries. Add the projects to the solution, and use the `--solution-folder` option of `dotnet sln` to organize the class libraries into a solution folder.

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet new sln -n mysolution
  dotnet new console -o myapp
  dotnet new classlib -o mylib1
  dotnet new classlib -o mylib2
  dotnet sln mysolution.slnx add myapp\myapp.csproj
  dotnet sln mysolution.slnx add mylib1\mylib1.csproj --solution-folder mylibs
  dotnet sln mysolution.slnx add mylib2\mylib2.csproj --solution-folder mylibs
  ```

  The following screenshot shows the result in Visual Studio 2019 **Solution Explorer**:

  :::image type="content" source="media/dotnet-sln/dotnet-sln-solution-folder.png" alt-text="Solution Explorer showing class library projects grouped into a solution folder.":::

## See also

- [dotnet/sdk GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotnet/sdk) (.NET CLI source)

Commit message:

Add breaking change documentation for `dotnet new sln` defaulting to SLNX format (#48195)

docs/core/tools/dotnet-sln.md, after:

---
title: dotnet sln command
description: The dotnet-sln command provides a convenient option to add, remove, and list projects in a solution file.
ms.date: 08/29/2025
---
# dotnet sln

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 3.1 SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet sln` - Lists or modifies the projects in a .NET solution file, or migrates the file to an *.slnx* file.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] [command]

dotnet sln [command] -h|--help
```

## Description

The `dotnet sln` command provides a convenient way to list and modify projects in a solution file.

### Create a solution file

To use the `dotnet sln` command, the solution file must already exist. If you need to create one, use the [dotnet new](dotnet-new.md) command with the `sln` template name.

The following example creates an *.slnx* file in the current folder, with the same name as the folder:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new sln
```

The following example creates an *.slnx* file in the current folder, with the specified file name:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new sln --name MySolution
```

The following example creates an *.slnx* file in the specified folder, with the same name as the folder:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new sln --output MySolution
```

> [!NOTE]
> In .NET 9 and earlier versions, `dotnet new sln` creates an *.sln* file instead of an *.slnx* file.

## Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file to use (either an *.sln* or *.slnx* file).

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* or *.slnx* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

## Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

## Commands

The following commands are available:

- [`list`](#list)
- [`add`](#add)
- [`remove`](#remove)
- [`migrate`](#migrate)

### `list`

Lists all projects in a solution file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln list [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file (*.sln* or *.slnx* file) or [solution filter](/visualstudio/msbuild/solution-filters) (*.slnf* file) to use.

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln*, *.slnx*, or *.slnf* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files or filters are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

  (Support for *.slnf* files was added in .NET SDK 9.0.3xx.)

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

### `add`

Adds one or more projects to the solution file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] add [--in-root] [-s|--solution-folder <PATH>] <PROJECT_PATH> [<PROJECT_PATH>...]
dotnet sln add [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file to use (either an *.sln* or *.slnx* file).

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* or *.slnx* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

- **`PROJECT_PATH`**

  The path to the project or projects to add to the solution. Unix/Linux shell [globbing pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) expansions are processed correctly by the `dotnet sln` command.

  If `PROJECT_PATH` includes folders that contain the project folder, that portion of the path is used to create [solution folders](/visualstudio/ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio#solution-folder). For example, the following commands create a solution with `myapp` in solution folder `folder1/folder2`:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet new sln
  dotnet new console --output folder1/folder2/myapp
  dotnet sln add folder1/folder2/myapp
  ```

  You can override this default behavior by using the `--in-root` or the `-s|--solution-folder <PATH>` option.

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

- **`--in-root`**

  Places the projects in the root of the solution, rather than creating a [solution folder](/visualstudio/ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio#solution-folder). Can't be used with `-s|--solution-folder`.

- **`-s|--solution-folder <PATH>`**

  The destination [solution folder](/visualstudio/ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio#solution-folder) path to add the projects to. Can't be used with `--in-root`.

### `remove`

Removes a project or multiple projects from the solution file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] remove <PROJECT_PATH|PROJECT_NAME> [<PROJECT_PATH|PROJECT_NAME>...]
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] remove [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The solution file to use (either an *.sln* or *.slnx* file).

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* or *.slnx* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple solution files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

- **`PROJECT_PATH` or `PROJECT_NAME`**

  The path to, or name of, the project or projects to remove from the solution. Unix/Linux shell [globbing pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) expansions are processed correctly by the `dotnet sln` command.

  If a project name is provided instead of a path, the project in the solution that matches the name, regardless of its path, is removed. If more than one matching project is found in the solution, the command errors out. Omit the project file extension in the name. (Support for removing projects by name was added in .NET 10.)

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

### `migrate`

Generates an *.slnx* solution file from an *.sln* file.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] migrate
dotnet sln [<SOLUTION_FILE>] migrate [-h|--help]
```

#### Arguments

- **`SOLUTION_FILE`**

  The *.sln* solution file to migrate.

  If unspecified, the command searches the current directory for an *.sln* file and, if it finds exactly one, uses that file. If multiple *.sln* files are found, the user is prompted to specify a file explicitly. If none are found, the command fails.

  If you specify an *.slnx* file instead of an *.sln* file, or if an *.slnx* file with the same file name (minus the *.sln* extension) already exists in the directory, the command fails.

#### Options

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

## Examples

- List the projects in a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx list
  ```

- Add a C# project to a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln add todo-app/todo-app.csproj
  ```

- Remove a C# project from a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln remove todo-app/todo-app.csproj
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to the root of a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add todo-app/todo-app.csproj back-end/back-end.csproj --in-root
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add todo-app/todo-app.csproj back-end/back-end.csproj
  ```

- Remove multiple C# projects from a solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx remove todo-app/todo-app.csproj back-end/back-end.csproj
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to a solution using a globbing pattern (Unix/Linux only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add **/*.csproj
  ```

- Add multiple C# projects to a solution using a globbing pattern (Windows PowerShell only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx add (ls -r **/*.csproj)
  ```

- Remove multiple C# projects from a solution using a globbing pattern (Unix/Linux only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx remove **/*.csproj
  ```

- Remove multiple C# projects from a solution using a globbing pattern (Windows PowerShell only):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.slnx remove (ls -r **/*.csproj)
  ```

- Generate an *.slnx* file from a *.sln* file:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet sln todo.sln migrate
  ```

- Create a solution, a console app, and two class libraries. Add the projects to the solution, and use the `--solution-folder` option of `dotnet sln` to organize the class libraries into a solution folder.

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet new sln -n mysolution
  dotnet new console -o myapp
  dotnet new classlib -o mylib1
  dotnet new classlib -o mylib2
  dotnet sln mysolution.slnx add myapp\myapp.csproj
  dotnet sln mysolution.slnx add mylib1\mylib1.csproj --solution-folder mylibs
  dotnet sln mysolution.slnx add mylib2\mylib2.csproj --solution-folder mylibs
  ```

  The following screenshot shows the result in Visual Studio 2019 **Solution Explorer**:

  :::image type="content" source="media/dotnet-sln/dotnet-sln-solution-folder.png" alt-text="Solution Explorer showing class library projects grouped into a solution folder.":::

## See also

- [dotnet/sdk GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotnet/sdk) (.NET CLI source)
