docs/core/tools/dotnet-pack.md, before:

---
title: dotnet pack command
description: The dotnet pack command creates NuGet packages for your .NET project.
ms.date: 08/23/2021
---
# dotnet pack

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 3.1 SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet pack` - Packs the code into a NuGet package.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet pack [<PROJECT>|<SOLUTION>] [-c|--configuration <CONFIGURATION>]
    [--force] [--include-source] [--include-symbols] [--interactive]
    [--no-build] [--no-dependencies] [--no-restore] [--nologo]
    [-o|--output <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>] [--runtime <RUNTIME_IDENTIFIER>]
    [-s|--serviceable] [-v|--verbosity <LEVEL>]
    [--version-suffix <VERSION_SUFFIX>]

dotnet pack -h|--help
```

## Description

The `dotnet pack` command builds the project and creates NuGet packages. The result of this command is a NuGet package (that is, a *.nupkg* file).

If you want to generate a package that contains the debug symbols, you have two options available:

- `--include-symbols` - it creates the symbols package.
- `--include-source` - it creates the symbols package with a `src` folder inside containing the source files.

NuGet dependencies of the packed project are added to the *.nuspec* file, so they're properly resolved when the package is installed. If the packed project has references to other projects, the other projects are not included in the package. Currently, you must have a package per project if you have project-to-project dependencies.

By default, `dotnet pack` builds the project first. If you wish to avoid this behavior, pass the `--no-build` option. This option is often useful in Continuous Integration (CI) build scenarios where you know the code was previously built.

> [!NOTE]
> In some cases, the implicit build cannot be performed. This can occur when `GeneratePackageOnBuild` is set, to avoid a cyclic dependency between build and pack targets. The build can also fail if there is a locked file or other issue.

You can provide MSBuild properties to the `dotnet pack` command for the packing process. For more information, see [NuGet pack target properties](/nuget/reference/msbuild-targets#pack-target) and the [MSBuild Command-Line Reference](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-command-line-reference). The [Examples](#examples) section shows how to use the MSBuild `-p` switch for a couple of different scenarios.

> [!NOTE]
> Web projects aren't packable.

### Implicit restore

[!INCLUDE[dotnet restore note + options](~/includes/dotnet-restore-note-options.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cli-advertising-manifests](../../../includes/cli-advertising-manifests.md)]

## Arguments

`PROJECT | SOLUTION`

  The project or solution to pack. It's either a path to a csproj, vbproj, or fsproj file, or to a solution file or directory. If not specified, the command searches the current directory for a project or solution file.

## Options

[!INCLUDE [configuration](../../../includes/cli-configuration.md)]

- **`--force`**

  Forces all dependencies to be resolved even if the last restore was successful. Specifying this flag is the same as deleting the *project.assets.json* file.

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

- **`--include-source`**

  Includes the debug symbols NuGet packages in addition to the regular NuGet packages in the output directory. The sources files are included in the `src` folder within the symbols package.

- **`--include-symbols`**

  Includes the debug symbols NuGet packages in addition to the regular NuGet packages in the output directory.

[!INCLUDE [interactive](../../../includes/cli-interactive-3-0.md)]

- **`--no-build`**

  Doesn't build the project before packing. It also implicitly sets the `--no-restore` flag.

- **`--no-dependencies`**

  Ignores project-to-project references and only restores the root project.

- **`--no-restore`**

  Doesn't execute an implicit restore when running the command.

- **`--nologo`**

  Doesn't display the startup banner or the copyright message.

- **`-o|--output <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>`**

  Places the built packages in the directory specified.

  - .NET 7.0.200 SDK and later

    If you specify the `--output` option the CLI will emit an error due to the unclear semantics of the output path.

- **`--runtime <RUNTIME_IDENTIFIER>`**

  Specifies the target runtime to restore packages for. For a list of Runtime Identifiers (RIDs), see the [RID catalog](../rid-catalog.md).

- **`-s|--serviceable`**

  Sets the serviceable flag in the package. For more information, see [.NET Blog: .NET Framework 4.5.1 Supports Microsoft Security Updates for .NET NuGet Libraries](https://aka.ms/nupkgservicing).

[!INCLUDE [verbosity](../../../includes/cli-verbosity.md)]

- **`--version-suffix <VERSION_SUFFIX>`**

  Defines the value for the `VersionSuffix` MSBuild property. The effect of this property on the package version depends on the values of the `Version` and `VersionPrefix` properties, as shown in the following table:

  | Properties with values              | Package version                     |
  |-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
  | None                                | `1.0.0`                             |
  | `Version`                           | `$(Version)`                        |
  | `VersionPrefix` only                | `$(VersionPrefix)`                  |
  | `VersionSuffix` only                | `1.0.0-$(VersionSuffix)`            |
  | `VersionPrefix` and `VersionSuffix` | `$(VersionPrefix)-$(VersionSuffix)` |

  If you want to use `--version-suffix`, specify `VersionPrefix` and not `Version` in the project file. For example, if `VersionPrefix` is `0.1.2` and you pass `--version-suffix rc.1` to `dotnet pack`, the package version will be `0.1.2-rc.1`.

  If `Version` has a value and you pass `--version-suffix` to `dotnet pack`, the value specified for `--version-suffix` is ignored.

## Examples

- Pack the project in the current directory:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack
  ```

- Pack the `app1` project:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack ~/projects/app1/project.csproj
  ```

- Pack the project in the current directory and place the resulting packages into the `nupkgs` folder:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --output nupkgs
  ```

- Pack the project in the current directory into the `nupkgs` folder and skip the build step:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --no-build --output nupkgs
  ```

- With the project's version suffix configured as `<VersionSuffix>$(VersionSuffix)</VersionSuffix>` in the *.csproj* file, pack the current project and update the resulting package version with the given suffix:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --version-suffix "ci-1234"
  ```

- Set the package version to `2.1.0` with the `PackageVersion` MSBuild property:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack -p:PackageVersion=2.1.0
  ```

- Pack the project for a specific [target framework](../../standard/frameworks.md):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack -p:TargetFrameworks=net45
  ```

- Pack the project and use a specific runtime (Windows 10) for the restore operation:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --runtime win10-x64
  ```

- Pack the project using a *.nuspec* file:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack ~/projects/app1/project.csproj -p:NuspecFile=~/projects/app1/project.nuspec -p:NuspecBasePath=~/projects/app1/nuget
  ```

  For information about how to use `NuspecFile`, `NuspecBasePath`, and `NuspecProperties`, see the following resources:

  - [Packing using a .nuspec](/nuget/reference/msbuild-targets#packing-using-a-nuspec)
  - [Advanced extension points to create customized package](/nuget/reference/msbuild-targets#advanced-extension-points-to-create-customized-package)
  - [Global properties](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-properties#global-properties)

Commit message:

clarify copy semantics on commands that didn't already have a section to reference

docs/core/tools/dotnet-pack.md, after:

---
title: dotnet pack command
description: The dotnet pack command creates NuGet packages for your .NET project.
ms.date: 08/23/2021
---
# dotnet pack

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 3.1 SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet pack` - Packs the code into a NuGet package.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet pack [<PROJECT>|<SOLUTION>] [-c|--configuration <CONFIGURATION>]
    [--force] [--include-source] [--include-symbols] [--interactive]
    [--no-build] [--no-dependencies] [--no-restore] [--nologo]
    [-o|--output <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>] [--runtime <RUNTIME_IDENTIFIER>]
    [-s|--serviceable] [-v|--verbosity <LEVEL>]
    [--version-suffix <VERSION_SUFFIX>]

dotnet pack -h|--help
```

## Description

The `dotnet pack` command builds the project and creates NuGet packages. The result of this command is a NuGet package (that is, a *.nupkg* file).

If you want to generate a package that contains the debug symbols, you have two options available:

- `--include-symbols` - it creates the symbols package.
- `--include-source` - it creates the symbols package with a `src` folder inside containing the source files.

NuGet dependencies of the packed project are added to the *.nuspec* file, so they're properly resolved when the package is installed. If the packed project has references to other projects, the other projects are not included in the package. Currently, you must have a package per project if you have project-to-project dependencies.

By default, `dotnet pack` builds the project first. If you wish to avoid this behavior, pass the `--no-build` option. This option is often useful in Continuous Integration (CI) build scenarios where you know the code was previously built.

> [!NOTE]
> In some cases, the implicit build cannot be performed. This can occur when `GeneratePackageOnBuild` is set, to avoid a cyclic dependency between build and pack targets. The build can also fail if there is a locked file or other issue.

You can provide MSBuild properties to the `dotnet pack` command for the packing process. For more information, see [NuGet pack target properties](/nuget/reference/msbuild-targets#pack-target) and the [MSBuild Command-Line Reference](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-command-line-reference). The [Examples](#examples) section shows how to use the MSBuild `-p` switch for a couple of different scenarios.

> [!NOTE]
> Web projects aren't packable.

### Implicit restore

[!INCLUDE[dotnet restore note + options](~/includes/dotnet-restore-note-options.md)]

[!INCLUDE [cli-advertising-manifests](../../../includes/cli-advertising-manifests.md)]

## Arguments

`PROJECT | SOLUTION`

  The project or solution to pack. It's either a path to a csproj, vbproj, or fsproj file, or to a solution file or directory. If not specified, the command searches the current directory for a project or solution file.

## Options

[!INCLUDE [configuration](../../../includes/cli-configuration.md)]

- **`--force`**

  Forces all dependencies to be resolved even if the last restore was successful. Specifying this flag is the same as deleting the *project.assets.json* file.

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

- **`--include-source`**

  Includes the debug symbols NuGet packages in addition to the regular NuGet packages in the output directory. The sources files are included in the `src` folder within the symbols package.

- **`--include-symbols`**

  Includes the debug symbols NuGet packages in addition to the regular NuGet packages in the output directory.

[!INCLUDE [interactive](../../../includes/cli-interactive-3-0.md)]

- **`--no-build`**

  Doesn't build the project before packing. It also implicitly sets the `--no-restore` flag.

- **`--no-dependencies`**

  Ignores project-to-project references and only restores the root project.

- **`--no-restore`**

  Doesn't execute an implicit restore when running the command.

- **`--nologo`**

  Doesn't display the startup banner or the copyright message.

- **`-o|--output <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>`**

  Places the built packages in the directory specified.

  - .NET 7.0.200 SDK and later

    If you specify the `--output` option the CLI will emit an error due to the unclear semantics of the output path. All outputs of all built projects will be copied into the specified directory, which isn't compatible with multi-targeted projects, as well as projects that have different versions of direct and transitive dependencies.

- **`--runtime <RUNTIME_IDENTIFIER>`**

  Specifies the target runtime to restore packages for. For a list of Runtime Identifiers (RIDs), see the [RID catalog](../rid-catalog.md).

- **`-s|--serviceable`**

  Sets the serviceable flag in the package. For more information, see [.NET Blog: .NET Framework 4.5.1 Supports Microsoft Security Updates for .NET NuGet Libraries](https://aka.ms/nupkgservicing).

[!INCLUDE [verbosity](../../../includes/cli-verbosity.md)]

- **`--version-suffix <VERSION_SUFFIX>`**

  Defines the value for the `VersionSuffix` MSBuild property. The effect of this property on the package version depends on the values of the `Version` and `VersionPrefix` properties, as shown in the following table:

  | Properties with values              | Package version                     |
  |-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
  | None                                | `1.0.0`                             |
  | `Version`                           | `$(Version)`                        |
  | `VersionPrefix` only                | `$(VersionPrefix)`                  |
  | `VersionSuffix` only                | `1.0.0-$(VersionSuffix)`            |
  | `VersionPrefix` and `VersionSuffix` | `$(VersionPrefix)-$(VersionSuffix)` |

  If you want to use `--version-suffix`, specify `VersionPrefix` and not `Version` in the project file. For example, if `VersionPrefix` is `0.1.2` and you pass `--version-suffix rc.1` to `dotnet pack`, the package version will be `0.1.2-rc.1`.

  If `Version` has a value and you pass `--version-suffix` to `dotnet pack`, the value specified for `--version-suffix` is ignored.

## Examples

- Pack the project in the current directory:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack
  ```

- Pack the `app1` project:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack ~/projects/app1/project.csproj
  ```

- Pack the project in the current directory and place the resulting packages into the `nupkgs` folder:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --output nupkgs
  ```

- Pack the project in the current directory into the `nupkgs` folder and skip the build step:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --no-build --output nupkgs
  ```

- With the project's version suffix configured as `<VersionSuffix>$(VersionSuffix)</VersionSuffix>` in the *.csproj* file, pack the current project and update the resulting package version with the given suffix:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --version-suffix "ci-1234"
  ```

- Set the package version to `2.1.0` with the `PackageVersion` MSBuild property:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack -p:PackageVersion=2.1.0
  ```

- Pack the project for a specific [target framework](../../standard/frameworks.md):

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack -p:TargetFrameworks=net45
  ```

- Pack the project and use a specific runtime (Windows 10) for the restore operation:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack --runtime win10-x64
  ```

- Pack the project using a *.nuspec* file:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet pack ~/projects/app1/project.csproj -p:NuspecFile=~/projects/app1/project.nuspec -p:NuspecBasePath=~/projects/app1/nuget
  ```

  For information about how to use `NuspecFile`, `NuspecBasePath`, and `NuspecProperties`, see the following resources:

  - [Packing using a .nuspec](/nuget/reference/msbuild-targets#packing-using-a-nuspec)
  - [Advanced extension points to create customized package](/nuget/reference/msbuild-targets#advanced-extension-points-to-create-customized-package)
  - [Global properties](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-properties#global-properties)
