---
title: dotnet cleanup command
description: The dotnet cleanup command cleans up code formatting to match editorconfig settings for the current directory.
ms.date: 07/12/2021
---
# dotnet cleanup

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 6.x SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet cleanup` - Cleans up code formatting to match editorconfig settings.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet [options] cleanup [<PROJECT | SOLUTION>] [command]

dotnet clean -h|--help
```

## Description

`dotnet cleanup` is a code formatter that applies style preferences to a project or solution. Preferences will be read from an .editorconfig file, if present, otherwise a default set of preferences will be used.

## Arguments

`PROJECT | SOLUTION`

The MSBuild project or solution to run code formatting on. If a project or solution file is not specified, MSBuild searches the current working directory for a file that has a file extension that ends in *proj* or *sln*, and uses that file.

## Options

* **`--diagnostics <diagnostics>`**

  A space separated list of diagnostic ids to use as a filter when fixing code style or 3rd party issues.

* **`--severity`**

  The severity of diagnostics to fix. Allowed values are info, warn, and error.

* **`--no-restore`**

  Doesn't execute an implicit restore before formatting.

* **`--include <include>`**

  A list of relative file or folder paths to include in formatting. All files in the current directory are formatted if empty.

* **`--exclude <exclude>`**

  A list of relative file or folder paths to exclude from formatting. [default: ]

* **`--include-generated`**

  Format files generated by the SDK.

* **`--verify-no-changes`**

  Verify no formatting changes would be performed. Terminates with a non zero exit code if any files would have been formatted.

* **`-v|--verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are `q[uiet]`, `m[inimal]`, `n[ormal]`, `d[etailed]`, and `diag[nostic]`. Default value is `m[inimal]`.

* **`--binarylog <binary-log-path>`**

  Log all project or solution load information to a binary log file.

* **`--report <report-path>`**

  Produces a JSON report in the directory specified by `<REPORT_PATH>`.

* **`-h|--help`**

  Show help and usage information

## Examples

* Clean up all code in the solution:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet cleanup ./solution.sln
  ```

* Cleans up all code in the application project:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet cleanup ./src/application.csproj
  ```

* Verifies that all code is correctly formatted:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet cleanup --verify-no-changes
  ```
  
* Cleans up all code in the `src` and `tests` directory but not in `src/submodule-a`:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet cleanup --include ./src/ ./tests/ --exclude ./src/submodule-a/
  ```
