---
title: "Creating the Object Model"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
ms.assetid: 27afce86-9b1d-45fb-8e0b-636bf671a236
---
# Creating the Object Model
You can create your object model from an existing database and use the model in its default state. You can also customize many aspects of the model and its behavior.  
  
 If you are using Visual Studio, you can use the Object Relational Designer to create your object model.  
  
## In This Section  
 [How to: Generate the Object Model in Visual Basic or C#](how-to-generate-the-object-model-in-visual-basic-or-csharp.md)  
 Describes how to use the SQLMetal command-line tool. Also provides a link to the Object Relational Designer for Visual Studio users  
  
 [How to: Generate the Object Model as an External File](how-to-generate-the-object-model-as-an-external-file.md)  
 Describes how to generate an external mapping file instead of using attribute-based mapping.  
  
 [How to: Generate Customized Code by Modifying a DBML File](how-to-generate-customized-code-by-modifying-a-dbml-file.md)  
 Describes how to generate Visual Basic or C# code from a DBML metadata file.  
  
 [How to: Validate DBML and External Mapping Files](how-to-validate-dbml-and-external-mapping-files.md)  
 Describes how to validate mapping files that you have modified (advanced).  
  
 [How to: Make Entities Serializable](how-to-make-entities-serializable.md)  
 Describes how to add appropriate attributes to make entities serializable.  
  
 [How to: Customize Entity Classes by Using the Code Editor](how-to-customize-entity-classes-by-using-the-code-editor.md)  
 Describes how to use the code editor to write your own mapping code, or customize code that has been autogenerated.  
  
## Related Sections  
 [The LINQ to SQL Object Model](the-linq-to-sql-object-model.md)  
 Provides details about the [!INCLUDE[vbtecdlinq](../../../../../../includes/vbtecdlinq-md.md)] object model.  
  
 [Typical Steps for Using LINQ to SQL](typical-steps-for-using-linq-to-sql.md)  
 Explains the typical steps that you follow to implement a [!INCLUDE[vbtecdlinq](../../../../../../includes/vbtecdlinq-md.md)] application.
