docs/core/diagnostics/built-in-metrics-system-net.md, before:

---
title: System.Net Metrics
description: Review the metrics available for System.Net
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 9/21/2023
---

# System.Net Metrics

This article describes the networking metrics built-in for <xref:System.Net> produced using the
<xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics?displayProperty=nameWithType> API. For a listing of metrics based on the alternate [EventCounters](event-counters.md) API,
see [here](available-counters.md).

- [Meter: `System.Net.NameResolution`](#meter-systemnetnameresolution) - Metrics for DNS lookups
  * [Instrument: `dns.lookup.duration`](#instrument-dnslookupduration)
- [Meter: `System.Net.Http`](#meter-systemnethttp) - Metrics for outbound networking requests using HttpClient
  * [Instrument: `http.client.open_connections`](#instrument-httpclientopen_connections)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.connection.duration`](#instrument-httpclientconnectionduration)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.request.duration`](#instrument-httpclientrequestduration)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.request.time_in_queue`](#instrument-httpclientrequesttime_in_queue)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.active_requests`](#instrument-httpclientactive_requests)

## Meter: `System.Net.NameResolution`

### Instrument: `dns.lookup.duration`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `dns.lookup.duration` | Histogram | `s` | Measures the time taken to perform a DNS lookup. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `dns.question.name` | string | The name being queried. | `www.example.com`; `dot.net` | Always |

This metric measures the time take to make DNS requests. These requests can occur by calling methods on
<xref:System.Net.Dns> or indirectly wihtin higher level APIs on types such as <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.

Available starting in: .NET 8

## Meter: `System.Net.Http`

### Instrument: `http.client.open_connections`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.open_connections` | UpDownCounter | `{connection}` | Number of outbound HTTP connections that are currently active or idle on the client |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.connection.state` | string | State of HTTP connection in the HTTP connection pool. | `active`; `idle` | Always |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `server.socket.address` | string | Server address of the socket connection - IP address or Unix domain socket name. | `10.5.3.2` | Always |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

<xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, when configured to use the default <xref:System.Net.Http.SocketsHttpHandler>, maintains a cached pool of network connections for sending HTTP messages. This metric counts how many connections are currently
in the pool. Active connections are handling active requests. Active connects could be transmitting data or awaiting the client or server. Idle connections aren't handling any
requests, but are left open so that future requests can be handled more quickly.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.connection.duration`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.connection.duration` | Histogram | `s` | The duration of successfully established outbound HTTP connections. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `server.socket.address` | string | Server address of the socket connection - IP address or Unix domain socket name. | `10.5.3.2` | Always |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

This metric is only captured when <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> is configured to use the default <xref:System.Net.Http.SocketsHttpHandler>.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.request.duration`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.request.duration` | Histogram | `s` | The duration of outbound HTTP requests. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.error.reason` | string | Request failure reason: one of [HTTP Request errors](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/c430570a01c103bc7f117be573f37d8ce8a129b8/src/libraries/System.Net.Http/src/System/Net/Http/HttpRequestError.cs), or a full exception type, or an HTTP 4xx/5xx status code. | `System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCanceledException`; `name_resolution_error`; `secure_connection_error` ; `404` | If request has failed. |
| `http.request.method` | string | HTTP request method. | `GET`; `POST`; `HEAD` | Always |
| `http.response.status_code` | int | [HTTP response status code](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6). | `200` | If one was received. |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

HTTP client request duration measures the time the underlying client handler takes to complete the request.
If the request was sent with `HttpCompletionOption.ResponseContentRead` option (the default value) then this metric records
time to last byte, otherwise if `HttpCompletionOption.ResponseHeadersRead` was set, this metric records time it took to receive response headers.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.request.time_in_queue`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.request.time_in_queue` | Histogram | `s` | The amount of time requests spent on a queue waiting for an available connection. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.request.method` | string | HTTP request method. | `GET`; `POST`; `HEAD` | Always |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

<xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, when configured to use the default <xref:System.Net.Http.SocketsHttpHandler>, sends HTTP requests using a pool of network connections.
If all connections are already busy handling other requests, new requests are placed in a queue and wait until a network connection is available for use. This instrument
measures the amount of time HTTP requests spend waiting in that queue, prior to anything being sent across the network.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.active_requests`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.active_requests` | UpDownCounter | `{request}` | Number of active HTTP requests. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.request.method` | string | HTTP request method. | `GET`; `POST`; `HEAD` | Always |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

This metric counts how many requests are considered active. Requests are active for the same time period that is measured by the [http.client.request.duration](#instrument-httpclientrequestduration) instrument.

Available starting in: .NET 8

Commit message:

Fix http.client.request.duration description

docs/core/diagnostics/built-in-metrics-system-net.md, after:

---
title: System.Net Metrics
description: Review the metrics available for System.Net
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 9/21/2023
---

# System.Net Metrics

This article describes the networking metrics built-in for <xref:System.Net> produced using the
<xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics?displayProperty=nameWithType> API. For a listing of metrics based on the alternate [EventCounters](event-counters.md) API,
see [here](available-counters.md).

- [Meter: `System.Net.NameResolution`](#meter-systemnetnameresolution) - Metrics for DNS lookups
  * [Instrument: `dns.lookup.duration`](#instrument-dnslookupduration)
- [Meter: `System.Net.Http`](#meter-systemnethttp) - Metrics for outbound networking requests using HttpClient
  * [Instrument: `http.client.open_connections`](#instrument-httpclientopen_connections)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.connection.duration`](#instrument-httpclientconnectionduration)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.request.duration`](#instrument-httpclientrequestduration)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.request.time_in_queue`](#instrument-httpclientrequesttime_in_queue)
  * [Instrument: `http.client.active_requests`](#instrument-httpclientactive_requests)

## Meter: `System.Net.NameResolution`

### Instrument: `dns.lookup.duration`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `dns.lookup.duration` | Histogram | `s` | Measures the time taken to perform a DNS lookup. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `dns.question.name` | string | The name being queried. | `www.example.com`; `dot.net` | Always |

This metric measures the time take to make DNS requests. These requests can occur by calling methods on
<xref:System.Net.Dns> or indirectly wihtin higher level APIs on types such as <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.

Available starting in: .NET 8

## Meter: `System.Net.Http`

### Instrument: `http.client.open_connections`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.open_connections` | UpDownCounter | `{connection}` | Number of outbound HTTP connections that are currently active or idle on the client |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.connection.state` | string | State of HTTP connection in the HTTP connection pool. | `active`; `idle` | Always |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `server.socket.address` | string | Server address of the socket connection - IP address or Unix domain socket name. | `10.5.3.2` | Always |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

<xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, when configured to use the default <xref:System.Net.Http.SocketsHttpHandler>, maintains a cached pool of network connections for sending HTTP messages. This metric counts how many connections are currently
in the pool. Active connections are handling active requests. Active connects could be transmitting data or awaiting the client or server. Idle connections aren't handling any
requests, but are left open so that future requests can be handled more quickly.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.connection.duration`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.connection.duration` | Histogram | `s` | The duration of successfully established outbound HTTP connections. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `server.socket.address` | string | Server address of the socket connection - IP address or Unix domain socket name. | `10.5.3.2` | Always |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

This metric is only captured when <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> is configured to use the default <xref:System.Net.Http.SocketsHttpHandler>.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.request.duration`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.request.duration` | Histogram | `s` | The duration of outbound HTTP requests. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.error.reason` | string | Request failure reason: one of [HTTP Request errors](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/c430570a01c103bc7f117be573f37d8ce8a129b8/src/libraries/System.Net.Http/src/System/Net/Http/HttpRequestError.cs), or a full exception type, or an HTTP 4xx/5xx status code. | `System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCanceledException`; `name_resolution_error`; `secure_connection_error` ; `404` | If request has failed. |
| `http.request.method` | string | HTTP request method. | `GET`; `POST`; `HEAD` | Always |
| `http.response.status_code` | int | [HTTP response status code](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6). | `200` | If one was received. |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

HTTP client request duration measures the time the underlying client handler takes to complete the request up to reading response headers from the network
stream. It does not include the time spent reading the response body.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.request.time_in_queue`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.request.time_in_queue` | Histogram | `s` | The amount of time requests spent on a queue waiting for an available connection. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.request.method` | string | HTTP request method. | `GET`; `POST`; `HEAD` | Always |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

<xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, when configured to use the default <xref:System.Net.Http.SocketsHttpHandler>, sends HTTP requests using a pool of network connections.
If all connections are already busy handling other requests, new requests are placed in a queue and wait until a network connection is available for use. This instrument
measures the amount of time HTTP requests spend waiting in that queue, prior to anything being sent across the network.

Available starting in: .NET 8

### Instrument: `http.client.active_requests`

| Name     | Instrument Type | Unit (UCUM) | Description    |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| `http.client.active_requests` | UpDownCounter | `{request}` | Number of active HTTP requests. |

| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Presence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `http.request.method` | string | HTTP request method. | `GET`; `POST`; `HEAD` | Always |
| `network.protocol.version` | string | Version of the application layer protocol used. | `1.1`; `2` | Always |
| `server.address` | string | Host identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `example.com` | Always |
| `server.port` | int | Port identifier of the ["URI origin"](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-uri-origin) HTTP request is sent to. | `80`; `8080`; `443` | If not default (`80` for `http` scheme, `443` for `https`) |
| `url.scheme` | string | The [URI scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-3.1) component identifying the used protocol. | `http`; `https`; `ftp` | Always |

This metric counts how many requests are considered active. Requests are active for the same time period that is measured by the [http.client.request.duration](#instrument-httpclientrequestduration) instrument.

Available starting in: .NET 8
