docs/core/diagnostics/trace-perfcollect-lttng.md, before:

---
title: Tracing .NET applications with PerfCollect.
description: A tutorial that walks you through collecting a trace with perfcollect in .NET.
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 10/23/2020
---

# Trace .NET applications with PerfCollect

**This article applies to: ✔️** .NET Core 2.1 SDK and later versions

When performance problems are encountered on Linux, collecting a trace with `perfcollect` can be used to gather detailed information about what was happening on the machine at the time of the performance problem.

`perfcollect` is a bash script that uses [Linux Trace Toolkit: next generation (LTTng)](https://lttng.org) to collect events written from the runtime or any [EventSource](xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventListener), as well as [perf](https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/) to collect CPU samples of the target process.

## Prepare your machine

Follow these steps to prepare your machine to collect a performance trace with `perfcollect`.

> [!NOTE]
> If you're capturing from inside a container, your container must have the appropriate capabilities. The minimal required capabilities are `PERFMON` and `SYS_PTRACE`.  If the capture fails with the minimal set, add the `SYS_ADMIN` capability to the container.  For more information on tracing applications inside containers using PerfCollect, see [Collect diagnostics in containers](./diagnostics-in-containers.md).

1. Download `perfcollect`.

    > ```bash
    > curl -OL https://aka.ms/perfcollect
    > ```

2. Make the script executable.

    > ```bash
    > chmod +x perfcollect
    > ```

3. Install tracing prerequisites - these are the actual tracing libraries.

    > ```bash
    > sudo ./perfcollect install
    > ```

    This will install the following prerequisites on your machine:

    1. `perf`: the Linux Performance Events subsystem and companion user-mode collection/viewer application. `perf` is part of the Linux kernel source, but is not usually installed by default.

    2. `LTTng`: Used to capture event data emitted at run time by CoreCLR. This data is then used to analyze the behavior of various runtime components such as the GC, JIT, and thread pool.

Recent versions of .NET Core and the Linux perf tool support automatic resolution of method names for framework code.

For resolving method names of native runtime DLLs (such as libcoreclr.so), `perfcollect` will resolve symbols for them when it converts the data, but only if the symbols for these binaries are present. See [Getting Symbols for the Native Runtime](#get-symbols-for-the-native-runtime) section for details.

## Collect a trace

1. Have two shells available - one for controlling tracing, referred to as **[Trace]**, and one for running the application, referred to as **[App]**.

2. **[Trace]** Start collection.

    > ```bash
    > sudo ./perfcollect collect sampleTrace
    > ```

    Expected Output:

    > ```bash
    > Collection started.  Press CTRL+C to stop.
    > ```

3. **[App]** Set up the application shell with the following environment variables - this enables tracing configuration of CoreCLR.

    > ```bash
    > export DOTNET_PerfMapEnabled=1
    > export DOTNET_EnableEventLog=1
    > ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > When executing the app with .NET 7, you must also set `DOTNET_EnableWriteXorExecute=0` in addition to the preceding environment variables.  For example:
    >
    > ```bash
    > export DOTNET_EnableWriteXorExecute=0
    > ```

   [!INCLUDE [complus-prefix](../../../includes/complus-prefix.md)]

4. **[App]** Run the app - let it run as long as you need to in order to capture the performance problem. The exact length can be as short as you need as long as it sufficiently captures the window of time where the performance problem you want to investigate occurs.

    > ```bash
    > dotnet run
    > ```

5. **[Trace]** Stop collection - hit CTRL+C.

    > ```bash
    > ^C
    > ...STOPPED.
    >
    > Starting post-processing. This may take some time.
    >
    > Generating native image symbol files
    > ...SKIPPED
    > Saving native symbols
    > ...FINISHED
    > Exporting perf.data file
    > ...FINISHED
    > Compressing trace files
    > ...FINISHED
    > Cleaning up artifacts
    > ...FINISHED
    >
    > Trace saved to sampleTrace.trace.zip
    > ```

    The compressed trace file is now stored in the current working directory.

## View a trace

There are a number of options for viewing the trace that was collected. Traces are best viewed using [PerfView](https://aka.ms/perfview) on Windows, but they can be viewed directly on Linux using `PerfCollect` itself or `TraceCompass`.

### Use PerfCollect to view the trace file

You can use perfcollect itself to view the trace that you collected. To do this, use the following command:

```bash
./perfcollect view sampleTrace.trace.zip
```

By default, this will show the CPU trace of the application using `perf`.

To look at the events that were collected via `LTTng`, you can pass in the flag `-viewer lttng` to see the individual events:

```bash
./perfcollect view sampleTrace.trace.zip -viewer lttng
```

This will use `babeltrace` viewer to print the events payload:

```bash
# [01:02:18.189217659] (+0.020132603) ubuntu-xenial DotNETRuntime:ExceptionThrown_V1: { cpu_id = 0 }, { ExceptionType = "System.Exception", ExceptionMessage = "An exception happened", ExceptionEIP = 139875671834775, ExceptionHRESULT = 2148734208, ExceptionFlags = 16, ClrInstanceID = 0 }
# [01:02:18.189250227] (+0.020165171) ubuntu-xenial DotNETRuntime:ExceptionCatchStart: { cpu_id = 0 }, { EntryEIP = 139873639728404, MethodID = 139873626968120, MethodName = "void [helloworld] helloworld.Program::Main(string[])", ClrInstanceID = 0 }
```

### Use PerfView to open the trace file

To see an aggregate view of both the CPU sample and the events, you can use `PerfView` on a Windows machine.

1. Copy the trace.zip file from Linux to a Windows machine.

2. Download PerfView from <https://aka.ms/perfview>.

3. Run PerfView.exe

    > ```cmd
    > PerfView.exe <path to trace.zip file>
    > ```

PerfView will display the list of views that are supported based on the data contained in the trace file.

- For CPU investigations, choose **CPU stacks**.

- For detailed GC information, choose **GCStats**.

- For per-process/module/method JIT information, choose **JITStats**.

- If there is not a view for the information you need, you can try looking for the events in the raw events view.  Choose **Events**.

For more information on how to interpret views in PerfView, see help links in the view itself, or from the main window in PerfView, choose **Help->Users Guide**.

> [!NOTE]
> Events written via <xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventSource?displayProperty=nameWithType> API (including the events from Framework) won't show up under their provider name. Instead, they are written as `EventSourceEvent` events under `Microsoft-Windows-DotNETRuntime` provider and their payloads are JSON serialized.

> [!NOTE]
> If you observe `[unknown] /memfd:doublemapper` frames in method names and callstacks, set `DOTNET_EnableWriteXorExecute=0` before running the app that you're tracing with perfcollect.

### Use TraceCompass to open the trace file

[Eclipse TraceCompass](https://www.eclipse.org/tracecompass/) is another option you can use to view the traces. `TraceCompass` works on Linux machines as well, so you don't need to move your trace over to a Windows machine. To use `TraceCompass` to open your trace file, you will need to unzip the file.

```bash
unzip myTrace.trace.zip
```

`perfcollect` will save the LTTng trace it collected into a CTF file format in a subdirectory in the `lttngTrace`. Specifically, the CTF file will be located in a directory that looks like `lttngTrace/auto-20201025-101230\ust\uid\1000\64-bit\`.

You can open the CTF trace file in `TraceCompass` by selecting `File -> Open Trace` and select the `metadata` file.

For more details, please refer to [`TraceCompass` documentation](https://www.eclipse.org/tracecompass/).

## Get symbols for the native runtime

Most of the time you are interested in your own code, which `perfcollect` resolves by default. Sometimes it is useful to see what is going on inside the .NET DLLs (which is what the last section was about), but sometimes what is going on in the native runtime dlls (typically libcoreclr.so), is interesting.  `perfcollect` will resolve the symbols for these when it converts its data, but only if the symbols for these native DLLs are present (and are beside the library they are for).

There is a global command called [dotnet-symbol](https://github.com/dotnet/symstore/blob/main/src/dotnet-symbol/README.md#symbol-downloader-dotnet-cli-extension) that does this. To use dotnet-symbol to get native runtime symbols:

1. Install `dotnet-symbol`:

    ```bash
    dotnet tool install -g dotnet-symbol
    ```

2. Download the symbols. If your installed version of the .NET Core runtime is 2.1.0, the command to do this is:

    ```bash
    mkdir mySymbols
    dotnet symbol --symbols --output mySymbols  /usr/share/dotnet/shared/Microsoft.NETCore.App/2.1.0/lib*.so
    ```

3. Copy the symbols to the correct place.

    ```bash
    sudo cp mySymbols/* /usr/share/dotnet/shared/Microsoft.NETCore.App/2.1.0
    ```

    If this cannot be done because you do not have write access to the appropriate directory, you can use `perf buildid-cache` to add the symbols.

After this, you should get symbolic names for the native dlls when you run `perfcollect`.

## Collect in a Docker container

For more information on how to use `perfcollect` in container environments, see [Collect diagnostics in containers](./diagnostics-in-containers.md).

## Learn more about collection options

You can specify the following optional flags with `perfcollect` to better suit your diagnostic needs.

### Collect for a specific duration

When you want to collect a trace for a specific duration, you can use `-collectsec` option followed by a number specifying the total seconds to collect a trace for.

### Collect threadtime traces

Specifying `-threadtime` with `perfcollect` lets you collect per-thread CPU usage data. This lets you analyze where every thread was spending its CPU time.

### Collect traces for managed memory and garbage collector performance

The following options let you specifically collect the GC events from the runtime.

* `perfcollect collect -gccollectonly`

Collect only a minimal set of GC Collection events. This is the least verbose GC eventing collection profile with the lowest impact on the target app's performance. This command is analogous to `PerfView.exe /GCCollectOnly collect` command in PerfView.

* `perfcollect collect -gconly`

Collect more verbose GC collection events with JIT, Loader, and Exception events. This requests more verbose events (such as the allocation information and GC join information) and will have more impact to the target app's performance than `-gccollectonly` option. This command is analogous to `PerfView.exe /GCOnly collect` command in PerfView.

* `perfcollect collect -gcwithheap`

Collect the most verbose GC collection events, which tracks the heap survival and movements as well. This gives in-depth analysis of the GC behavior but will incur high performance cost as each GC can take more than two times longer. It is recommended you understand the performance implication of using this trace option when tracing in production environments.

Commit message:

Add a warning about perfcollect Lttng incompatibility

docs/core/diagnostics/trace-perfcollect-lttng.md, after:

---
title: Tracing .NET applications with PerfCollect.
description: A tutorial that walks you through collecting a trace with perfcollect in .NET.
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 10/23/2020
---

# Trace .NET applications with PerfCollect

**This article applies to: ✔️** .NET Core 2.1 SDK and later versions

When performance problems are encountered on Linux, collecting a trace with `perfcollect` can be used to gather detailed information about what was happening on the machine at the time of the performance problem.

`perfcollect` is a bash script that uses [Linux Trace Toolkit: next generation (LTTng)](https://lttng.org) to collect events written from the runtime or any [EventSource](xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventListener), as well as [perf](https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/) to collect CPU samples of the target process.

## Prepare your machine

Follow these steps to prepare your machine to collect a performance trace with `perfcollect`.

> [!NOTE]
> If you're capturing from inside a container, your container must have the appropriate capabilities. The minimal required capabilities are `PERFMON` and `SYS_PTRACE`.  If the capture fails with the minimal set, add the `SYS_ADMIN` capability to the container.  For more information on tracing applications inside containers using PerfCollect, see [Collect diagnostics in containers](./diagnostics-in-containers.md).

1. Download `perfcollect`.

    > ```bash
    > curl -OL https://aka.ms/perfcollect
    > ```

2. Make the script executable.

    > ```bash
    > chmod +x perfcollect
    > ```

3. Install tracing prerequisites - these are the actual tracing libraries.

    > ```bash
    > sudo ./perfcollect install
    > ```

    This will install the following prerequisites on your machine:

    1. `perf`: the Linux Performance Events subsystem and companion user-mode collection/viewer application. `perf` is part of the Linux kernel source, but is not usually installed by default.

    2. `LTTng`: Used to capture event data emitted at run time by CoreCLR. This data is then used to analyze the behavior of various runtime components such as the GC, JIT, and thread pool.

Recent versions of .NET Core and the Linux perf tool support automatic resolution of method names for framework code.

For resolving method names of native runtime DLLs (such as libcoreclr.so), `perfcollect` will resolve symbols for them when it converts the data, but only if the symbols for these binaries are present. See [Getting Symbols for the Native Runtime](#get-symbols-for-the-native-runtime) section for details.

## Collect a trace

1. Have two shells available - one for controlling tracing, referred to as **[Trace]**, and one for running the application, referred to as **[App]**.

2. **[Trace]** Start collection.

    > ```bash
    > sudo ./perfcollect collect sampleTrace
    > ```

    Expected Output:

    > ```bash
    > Collection started.  Press CTRL+C to stop.
    > ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > LTTng had a breaking change between versions 2.12 and 2.13. The .NET runtime currently supports version 2.12. If your Linux distribution has adopted 2.13 or later then we recommend disabling the LTTng portion of the perfcollect functionality. To do this add the option '-nolttng' to the perfcollect command-line and in step 3 do not set the DOTNET_EnableEventLog environment variable.

3. **[App]** Set up the application shell with the following environment variables - this enables tracing configuration of CoreCLR.

    > ```bash
    > export DOTNET_PerfMapEnabled=1
    > export DOTNET_EnableEventLog=1
    > ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > When executing the app with .NET 7, you must also set `DOTNET_EnableWriteXorExecute=0` in addition to the preceding environment variables.  For example:
    >
    > ```bash
    > export DOTNET_EnableWriteXorExecute=0
    > ```

   [!INCLUDE [complus-prefix](../../../includes/complus-prefix.md)]

4. **[App]** Run the app - let it run as long as you need to in order to capture the performance problem. The exact length can be as short as you need as long as it sufficiently captures the window of time where the performance problem you want to investigate occurs.

    > ```bash
    > dotnet run
    > ```

5. **[Trace]** Stop collection - hit CTRL+C.

    > ```bash
    > ^C
    > ...STOPPED.
    >
    > Starting post-processing. This may take some time.
    >
    > Generating native image symbol files
    > ...SKIPPED
    > Saving native symbols
    > ...FINISHED
    > Exporting perf.data file
    > ...FINISHED
    > Compressing trace files
    > ...FINISHED
    > Cleaning up artifacts
    > ...FINISHED
    >
    > Trace saved to sampleTrace.trace.zip
    > ```

    The compressed trace file is now stored in the current working directory.

## View a trace

There are a number of options for viewing the trace that was collected. Traces are best viewed using [PerfView](https://aka.ms/perfview) on Windows, but they can be viewed directly on Linux using `PerfCollect` itself or `TraceCompass`.

### Use PerfCollect to view the trace file

You can use perfcollect itself to view the trace that you collected. To do this, use the following command:

```bash
./perfcollect view sampleTrace.trace.zip
```

By default, this will show the CPU trace of the application using `perf`.

To look at the events that were collected via `LTTng`, you can pass in the flag `-viewer lttng` to see the individual events:

```bash
./perfcollect view sampleTrace.trace.zip -viewer lttng
```

This will use `babeltrace` viewer to print the events payload:

```bash
# [01:02:18.189217659] (+0.020132603) ubuntu-xenial DotNETRuntime:ExceptionThrown_V1: { cpu_id = 0 }, { ExceptionType = "System.Exception", ExceptionMessage = "An exception happened", ExceptionEIP = 139875671834775, ExceptionHRESULT = 2148734208, ExceptionFlags = 16, ClrInstanceID = 0 }
# [01:02:18.189250227] (+0.020165171) ubuntu-xenial DotNETRuntime:ExceptionCatchStart: { cpu_id = 0 }, { EntryEIP = 139873639728404, MethodID = 139873626968120, MethodName = "void [helloworld] helloworld.Program::Main(string[])", ClrInstanceID = 0 }
```

### Use PerfView to open the trace file

To see an aggregate view of both the CPU sample and the events, you can use `PerfView` on a Windows machine.

1. Copy the trace.zip file from Linux to a Windows machine.

2. Download PerfView from <https://aka.ms/perfview>.

3. Run PerfView.exe

    > ```cmd
    > PerfView.exe <path to trace.zip file>
    > ```

PerfView will display the list of views that are supported based on the data contained in the trace file.

- For CPU investigations, choose **CPU stacks**.

- For detailed GC information, choose **GCStats**.

- For per-process/module/method JIT information, choose **JITStats**.

- If there is not a view for the information you need, you can try looking for the events in the raw events view.  Choose **Events**.

For more information on how to interpret views in PerfView, see help links in the view itself, or from the main window in PerfView, choose **Help->Users Guide**.

> [!NOTE]
> Events written via <xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventSource?displayProperty=nameWithType> API (including the events from Framework) won't show up under their provider name. Instead, they are written as `EventSourceEvent` events under `Microsoft-Windows-DotNETRuntime` provider and their payloads are JSON serialized.

> [!NOTE]
> If you observe `[unknown] /memfd:doublemapper` frames in method names and callstacks, set `DOTNET_EnableWriteXorExecute=0` before running the app that you're tracing with perfcollect.

### Use TraceCompass to open the trace file

[Eclipse TraceCompass](https://www.eclipse.org/tracecompass/) is another option you can use to view the traces. `TraceCompass` works on Linux machines as well, so you don't need to move your trace over to a Windows machine. To use `TraceCompass` to open your trace file, you will need to unzip the file.

```bash
unzip myTrace.trace.zip
```

`perfcollect` will save the LTTng trace it collected into a CTF file format in a subdirectory in the `lttngTrace`. Specifically, the CTF file will be located in a directory that looks like `lttngTrace/auto-20201025-101230\ust\uid\1000\64-bit\`.

You can open the CTF trace file in `TraceCompass` by selecting `File -> Open Trace` and select the `metadata` file.

For more details, please refer to [`TraceCompass` documentation](https://www.eclipse.org/tracecompass/).

## Get symbols for the native runtime

Most of the time you are interested in your own code, which `perfcollect` resolves by default. Sometimes it is useful to see what is going on inside the .NET DLLs (which is what the last section was about), but sometimes what is going on in the native runtime dlls (typically libcoreclr.so), is interesting.  `perfcollect` will resolve the symbols for these when it converts its data, but only if the symbols for these native DLLs are present (and are beside the library they are for).

There is a global command called [dotnet-symbol](https://github.com/dotnet/symstore/blob/main/src/dotnet-symbol/README.md#symbol-downloader-dotnet-cli-extension) that does this. To use dotnet-symbol to get native runtime symbols:

1. Install `dotnet-symbol`:

    ```bash
    dotnet tool install -g dotnet-symbol
    ```

2. Download the symbols. If your installed version of the .NET Core runtime is 2.1.0, the command to do this is:

    ```bash
    mkdir mySymbols
    dotnet symbol --symbols --output mySymbols  /usr/share/dotnet/shared/Microsoft.NETCore.App/2.1.0/lib*.so
    ```

3. Copy the symbols to the correct place.

    ```bash
    sudo cp mySymbols/* /usr/share/dotnet/shared/Microsoft.NETCore.App/2.1.0
    ```

    If this cannot be done because you do not have write access to the appropriate directory, you can use `perf buildid-cache` to add the symbols.

After this, you should get symbolic names for the native dlls when you run `perfcollect`.

## Collect in a Docker container

For more information on how to use `perfcollect` in container environments, see [Collect diagnostics in containers](./diagnostics-in-containers.md).

## Learn more about collection options

You can specify the following optional flags with `perfcollect` to better suit your diagnostic needs.

### Collect for a specific duration

When you want to collect a trace for a specific duration, you can use `-collectsec` option followed by a number specifying the total seconds to collect a trace for.

### Collect threadtime traces

Specifying `-threadtime` with `perfcollect` lets you collect per-thread CPU usage data. This lets you analyze where every thread was spending its CPU time.

### Collect traces for managed memory and garbage collector performance

The following options let you specifically collect the GC events from the runtime.

* `perfcollect collect -gccollectonly`

Collect only a minimal set of GC Collection events. This is the least verbose GC eventing collection profile with the lowest impact on the target app's performance. This command is analogous to `PerfView.exe /GCCollectOnly collect` command in PerfView.

* `perfcollect collect -gconly`

Collect more verbose GC collection events with JIT, Loader, and Exception events. This requests more verbose events (such as the allocation information and GC join information) and will have more impact to the target app's performance than `-gccollectonly` option. This command is analogous to `PerfView.exe /GCOnly collect` command in PerfView.

* `perfcollect collect -gcwithheap`

Collect the most verbose GC collection events, which tracks the heap survival and movements as well. This gives in-depth analysis of the GC behavior but will incur high performance cost as each GC can take more than two times longer. It is recommended you understand the performance implication of using this trace option when tracing in production environments.
