---
title: "Writing a Transactional Application"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
ms.prod: ".net-framework"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: a4d891f2-6fc8-4395-93c6-6819492406e0
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "dotnet-bot"
ms.author: "dotnetcontent"
manager: "wpickett"
ms.workload: 
  - "dotnet"
---
# Writing a Transactional Application
As a transactional application programmer, you can take advantage of the two programming models provided by the <xref:System.Transactions> namespace to create a transaction. You can utilize the explicit programming model by using the <xref:System.Transactions.Transaction> class, or the implicit programming model in which transactions are automatically managed by the infrastructure, by using the <xref:System.Transactions.TransactionScope> class. We recommend that you use the implicit transaction model for development. You can find more information on how to use a transaction scope in the [Implementing an Implicit Transaction using Transaction Scope](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/implementing-an-implicit-transaction-using-transaction-scope.md) topic.  
  
 Both models support committing a transaction when the program reaches a consistent state. If the commit succeeds, the transaction is durably committed. If the commit fails, the transaction aborts. If the application program cannot successfully complete the transaction, it attempts to abort and undo the transaction's effects.  
  
## In This Section  
  
### Creating a Transaction  
 The <xref:System.Transactions> namespace provides two models for creating a transaction. These models are covered in the following topics.  
  
 [Implementing an Implicit Transaction using Transaction Scope](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/implementing-an-implicit-transaction-using-transaction-scope.md)  
  
 Describes how the <xref:System.Transactions> namespace supports creating implicit transactions using the <xref:System.Transactions.TransactionScope> class.  
  
 [Implementing an Explicit Transaction using CommittableTransaction](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/implementing-an-explicit-transaction-using-committabletransaction.md)  
  
 Describes how the <xref:System.Transactions> namespace supports creating explicit transactions using the <xref:System.Transactions.CommittableTransaction> class.  
  
### Escalating Transaction Management  
 When a transaction needs to access a resource in another application domain, or if you want to enlist in another durable resource manager, the transaction is automatically escalated to be managed by the MSDTC. Transaction escalation is covered in the [Transaction Management Escalation](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/transaction-management-escalation.md) topic.  
  
### Concurrency  
 The topic [Managing Concurrency with DependentTransaction](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/managing-concurrency-with-dependenttransaction.md) demonstrates how concurrency can be achieved between asynchronous tasks by using the <xref:System.Transactions.DependentTransaction> class.  
  
### COM+ Interop  
 The topic [Interoperability with Enterprise Services and COM+ Transactions](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/interoperability-with-enterprise-services-and-com-transactions.md) illustrates how you can make your distributed transactions interact with COM+ transactions.  
  
### Diagnostics  
 [Diagnostic Traces](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/diagnostic-traces.md) describes how you can use the trace codes that are generated by the <xref:System.Transactions> infrastructure to troubleshoot errors in your applications.  
  
### Working within ASP.NET  
 The [Using System.Transactions in ASP.NET](../../../../docs/framework/data/transactions/using-system-transactions-in-aspnet.md) topic describes how you can successfully use <xref:System.Transactions> inside an ASP.NET application.
