---
title: 'CA1011: Consider passing base types as parameters'
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- ConsiderPassingBaseTypesAsParameters
- CA1011
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1011
- ConsiderPassingBaseTypesAsParameters
ms.assetid: ce1e1241-dcf4-419b-9363-1d5bc4989279
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1011: Consider passing base types as parameters

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1011|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause

A method declaration includes a formal parameter that is a derived type, and the method calls only members of the base type of the parameter.

## Rule description

When a base type is specified as a parameter in a method declaration, any type that is derived from the base type can be passed as the corresponding argument to the method. When the argument is used inside the method body, the specific method that is executed depends on the type of the argument. If the additional functionality that is provided by the derived type is not required, use of the base type allows wider use of the method.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the type of the parameter to its base type.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule

- if the method requires the specific functionality that is provided by the derived type

     \- or -

- to enforce that only the derived type, or a more derived type, is passed to the method.

In these cases, the code will be more robust because of the strong type checking that is provided by the compiler and runtime.

## Example

The following example shows a method, `ManipulateFileStream`, that can be used only with a <xref:System.IO.FileStream> object, which violates this rule. A second method, `ManipulateAnyStream`, satisfies the rule by replacing the <xref:System.IO.FileStream> parameter by using a <xref:System.IO.Stream>.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Design.ConsiderPassingBaseTypes#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1011-consider-passing-base-types-as-parameters_1.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Design.ConsiderPassingBaseTypes#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca1011-consider-passing-base-types-as-parameters_1.vb)]

## Related rules

[CA1059: Members should not expose certain concrete types](../code-quality/ca1059.md)
