---
title: 'CA1039: Lists are strongly typed'
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1039
- ListsAreStronglyTyped
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1039
- ListsAreStronglyTyped
ms.assetid: 5ac366c4-fd87-4d5c-95d5-f755510c8e5c
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1039: Lists are strongly typed

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1039|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause

The public or protected type implements <xref:System.Collections.IList?displayProperty=fullName> but does not provide a strongly typed method for one or more of the following:

- IList.Item

- IList.Add

- IList.Contains

- IList.IndexOf

- IList.Insert

- IList.Remove

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description

This rule requires <xref:System.Collections.IList> implementations to provide strongly typed members, so that users are not required to cast arguments to the <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=fullName> type when they use the functionality that is provided by the interface. The <xref:System.Collections.IList> interface is implemented by collections of objects that can be accessed by index. This rule assumes that the type that implements <xref:System.Collections.IList> manages a collection of instances of a type that's stronger than <xref:System.Object>.

<xref:System.Collections.IList> implements the <xref:System.Collections.ICollection?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable?displayProperty=fullName> interfaces. If you implement <xref:System.Collections.IList>, you must provide the required strongly typed members for <xref:System.Collections.ICollection>. If the objects in the collection extend <xref:System.ValueType?displayProperty=fullName>, you must provide a strongly typed member for <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable.GetEnumerator%2A> to avoid the decrease in performance that is caused by boxing; this is not required when the objects of the collection are a reference type.

To comply with this rule, implement the interface members explicitly by using names in the form InterfaceName.InterfaceMemberName, such as <xref:System.Collections.IList.Add%2A>. The explicit interface members use the data types that are declared by the interface. Implement the strongly typed members by using the interface member name, such as `Add`. Declare the strongly typed members as public, and declare parameters and return values to be of the strong type that is managed by the collection. The strong types replace weaker types such as <xref:System.Object> and <xref:System.Array> that are declared by the interface.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, explicitly implement <xref:System.Collections.IList> members and provide strongly typed alternatives for the members that were noted previously. For code that correctly implements the <xref:System.Collections.IList> interface and provides the required strongly typed members, see the following example.

## When to suppress warnings
Suppress a warning from this rule when you implement a new object-based collection, such as a linked list, where types that extend the new collection determine the strong type. These types should comply with this rule and expose strongly typed members.

## Example
In the following example, the type `YourType` extends <xref:System.Collections.CollectionBase?displayProperty=fullName>, as all strongly typed collections should. <xref:System.Collections.CollectionBase> provides the explicit implementation of the <xref:System.Collections.IList> interface for you. Therefore, you must only provide the strongly typed members for <xref:System.Collections.IList> and <xref:System.Collections.ICollection>.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Design.IListStrongTypes#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1039-lists-are-strongly-typed_1.cs)]

## Related rules
[CA1035: ICollection implementations have strongly typed members](../code-quality/ca1035.md)

[CA1038: Enumerators should be strongly typed](../code-quality/ca1038.md)

## See also

- <xref:System.Collections.CollectionBase?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Collections.ICollection?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Collections.IList?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=fullName>
