---
title: "CA1050: Declare types in namespaces (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1050: Declare types in namespaces"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1050
- DeclareTypesInNamespaces
helpviewer_keywords:
- DeclareTypesInNamespaces
- CA1050
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1050: Declare types in namespaces

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1050|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Fix is a breaking or non-breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause

A public or protected type is defined outside the scope of a named namespace.

## Rule description

Types are declared in namespaces to prevent name collisions, and as a way to organize related types in an object hierarchy. Types that are outside any named namespace are in a global namespace that cannot be referenced in code.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, place the type in a namespace.

## When to suppress warnings

Although you never have to suppress a warning from this rule, it is safe to do this when the assembly will never be used together with other assemblies.

## Example 1

The following example shows a library that has a type incorrectly declared outside a namespace, and a type that has the same name declared in a namespace.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Design.TypesLiveInNamespaces#1](snippets/csharp/ca1050-declare-types-in-namespaces_1.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Design.TypesLiveInNamespaces#1](../../../../samples/snippets/fundamentals/code-analysis/visualbasic/ca1050-declare-types-in-namespaces_1.vb)]

## Example 2

The following application uses the library that was defined previously. Note that the type that is declared outside a namespace is created when the name `Test` is not qualified by a namespace. Note also that to access the `Test` type in `Goodspace`, the namespace name is required.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Design.TestTypesLive#1](snippets/csharp/ca1050-declare-types-in-namespaces_2.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Design.TestTypesLive#1](../../../../samples/snippets/fundamentals/code-analysis/visualbasic/ca1050-declare-types-in-namespaces_2.vb)]
