---
title: "CA1070: Do not declare event fields as virtual"
ms.date: 04/30/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA1070"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA1070"
author: mavasani
ms.author: mavasani
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA1070: Do not declare event fields as virtual

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1070|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause

A [field-like event](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/language-specification/classes#field-like-events) was declared as virtual.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configurability).

## Rule description

Follow these [.NET design guidelines](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/events/how-to-raise-base-class-events-in-derived-classes) to raise base class events in derived classes. Do not declare virtual events in a base class. Overridden events in a derived class have undefined behavior. The C# compiler does not handle this correctly and it is unpredictable whether a subscriber to the derived event will actually be subscribing to the base class event.

```csharp
using System;
public class C
{
    // CA1070: Event 'ThresholdReached' should not be declared virtual.
    public virtual event EventHandler ThresholdReached;
}
```

## How to fix violations

Follow these [.NET design guidelines](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/events/how-to-raise-base-class-events-in-derived-classes) and avoid virtual field-like events.

## When to suppress warnings

If the event is an externally visible public API that is already part of a shipped library, then it is safe to suppress a warning from this rule to avoid a breaking change for the library consumers.

## Configurability

You can configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on, based on their accessibility. For example, to specify that the rule should run only against the non-public API surface, add the following key-value pair to an .editorconfig file in your project:

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.ca1070.api_surface = private, internal
```

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category (Design). For more information, see [Configure .NET code-quality analyzers](configure-fxcop-analyzers.md).

## See also

- [Design warnings](design-warnings.md)
