---
title: "CA1068: CancellationToken parameters must come last" (code analysis)
ms.date: 09/16/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA1068"
  - "CancellationTokenParametersMustComeLast"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA1068"
  - "CancellationTokenParametersMustComeLast"
author: mavasani
ms.author: mavasani
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA1068: CancellationToken parameters must come last

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1068|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause

A method has a <xref:System.Threading.CancellationToken> parameter that is not the last parameter.

## Rule description

Methods that perform long running operations or asynchronous operations and are cancelable normally take a cancellation token parameter. Each cancellation token has a <xref:System.Threading.CancellationTokenSource> that creates the token and uses it for cancelable computations. It is common practice to have a long chain of method calls that pass around the cancellation token from the callers to the callees. Hence, a large number of methods that take part in a cancelable computation end up having a cancellation token parameter. However, the cancellation token itself is not usually relevant to the core functionality of a majority of these methods. It's considered a good API design practice to have such parameters be the last parameter in the list.

### Special cases
Rule CA1068 does not fire in the following special cases:
- Method has one or more [optional](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/named-and-optional-arguments#optional-arguments) parameters ([Optional](/dotnet/visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/procedures/optional-parameters) in Visual Basic) following a non-optional cancellation token parameter. The compiler requires that all optional parameters are defined after all the non-optional parameters.
- Method has one or more [ref](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/ref) or [out](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/out-parameter-modifier) parameters ([ByRef](/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/modifiers/byref) in Visual Basic) following a cancellation token parameter. It is common practice to have `ref` or `out` parameters be at the end of the list, because they usually indicate output values for the method.

## How to fix violations

Change the method signature to move the cancellation token parameter to the end of the list. For example, the following two code snippets show a violation of the rule and how to fix it:

```csharp
// Violates CA1068
public void LongRunningOperation(CancellationToken token, string usefulParameter)
{
    ...
}
```

```csharp
// Does not violate CA1068
public void LongRunningOperation(string usefulParameter, CancellationToken token)
{
    ...
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

If the method is an externally visible public API that is already part of a shipped library, then it is safe to suppress a warning from this rule to avoid a breaking change for the library consumers.

## Configurability

[Roslyn analyzers issue 2851](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers/issues/2851) tracks making the rule configurable. Once it's implemented, you can configure the API surface on which rule executes to avoid having to use source suppressions.

## Related rules

- [CA1021: Avoid out parameters](../code-quality/ca1021.md)
- [CA1025: Replace repetitive arguments with params array](../code-quality/ca1025.md)
- [CA1026: Default parameters should not be used](../code-quality/ca1026.md)

## See also

- [Recommended patterns for CancellationToken](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/premier-developer/recommended-patterns-for-cancellationtoken/)
