---
title: 'CA1405: COM visible type base types should be COM visible'
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1405
- ComVisibleTypeBaseTypesShouldBeComVisible
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1405
- ComVisibleTypeBaseTypesShouldBeComVisible
ms.assetid: a762ea2f-5285-4f73-bfb9-9eb10aea4290
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1405: COM visible type base types should be COM visible

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1405|
|Category|Microsoft.Interoperability|
|Breaking change|DependsOnFix|

## Cause
A Component Object Model (COM) visible type derives from a type that is not COM visible.

## Rule description
When a COM visible type adds members in a new version, it must abide by strict guidelines to avoid breaking COM clients that bind to the current version. A type that is invisible to COM presumes it does not have to follow these COM versioning rules when it adds new members. However, if a COM visible type derives from the COM invisible type and exposes a class interface of <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ClassInterfaceType?displayProperty=fullName> or <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ClassInterfaceType> (the default), all public members of the base type (unless they are specifically marked as COM invisible, which would be redundant) are exposed to COM. If the base type adds new members in a subsequent version, any COM clients that bind to the class interface of the derived type might break. COM visible types should derive only from COM visible types to reduce the chance of breaking COM clients.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, make the base types COM visible or the derived type COM invisible.

## When to suppress warnings
Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## Example
The following example shows a type that violates the rule.

[!code-vb[FxCop.Interoperability.ComBaseTypes#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca1405-com-visible-type-base-types-should-be-com-visible_1.vb)]
[!code-csharp[FxCop.Interoperability.ComBaseTypes#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1405-com-visible-type-base-types-should-be-com-visible_1.cs)]

## See also

- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ClassInterfaceAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>
- [Interoperating with Unmanaged Code](/dotnet/framework/interop/index)
