---
title: "CA1716: Identifiers should not match keywords (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1716: Identifiers should not match keywords"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IdentifiersShouldNotMatchKeywords
- CA1716
helpviewer_keywords:
- IdentifiersShouldNotMatchKeywords
- CA1716
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1716: Identifiers should not match keywords

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1716|
| **Category** |Microsoft.Naming|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

The name of a namespace, type, or virtual or interface member matches a reserved keyword in a programming language.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible namespaces, types, and members, but you can [configure visibility](#api-surface) and [symbol kinds](#analyzed-symbol-kinds).

## Rule description

Identifiers for namespaces, types, and virtual and interface members should not match keywords that are defined by languages that target the common language runtime. Depending on the language that is used and the keyword, compiler errors and ambiguities can make the library difficult to use.

This rule checks against keywords in the following languages:

- Visual Basic
- C#
- C++/CLI

Case-insensitive comparison is used for Visual Basic keywords, and case-sensitive comparison is used for the other languages.

## How to fix violations

Select a name that does not appear in the list of keywords.

## When to suppress warnings

You can suppress a warning from this rule if you're convinced that the identifier won't confuse users of the API, and that the library is usable in all available languages in .NET.

## Configurability

### Api surface

You can configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on, based on their accessibility. For example, to specify that the rule should run only against the non-public API surface, add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project:

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.ca1716.api_surface = private, internal
```

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category (Naming). For more information, see [Configure code analysis rules](../configure-code-quality-rules.md).

### Analyzed symbol kinds

You can configure the members types that will be analyzed by this rule. Use one or more of these values `Namespace`, `NamedType`, `Method`, `Property`, `Event`, `Parameter` as a comma separated list. Note that the default value includes all of the above members.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1716.analyzed_symbol_kinds = Namespace, NamedType, Method, Property, Event
```
