---
title: 'CA1704: Identifiers should be spelled correctly'
ms.date: 03/28/2018
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1704
- IdentifiersShouldBeSpelledCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1704
- IdentifiersShouldBeSpelledCorrectly
ms.assetid: f2c7a44d-1690-44ca-9cd0-681b04b12b2a
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1704: Identifiers should be spelled correctly

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1704|
|Category|Microsoft.Naming|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause

The name of an identifier contains one or more words that are not recognized by the Microsoft spelling checker library. This rule does not check constructors or special-named members such as get and set property accessors.

## Rule description

This rule parses the identifier into tokens and checks the spelling of each token. The parsing algorithm performs the following transformations:

- Uppercase letters start a new token. For example, MyNameIsJoe tokenizes to "My", "Name", "Is", "Joe".

- For multiple uppercase letters, the last uppercase letter starts a new token. For example, GUIEditor tokenizes to "GUI", "Editor".

- Leading and trailing apostrophes are removed. For example, 'sender' tokenizes to "sender".

- Underscores signify the end of a token and are removed. For example, Hello_world tokenizes to "Hello", "world".

- Embedded ampersands are removed. For example, for&mat tokenizes to "format".

## Language

The spell checker currently checks only against English-based culture dictionaries. You can change the culture of your project in the project file, by adding the **CodeAnalysisCulture** element.

For example:

```xml
<Project ...>
  <PropertyGroup>
    <CodeAnalysisCulture>en-AU</CodeAnalysisCulture>
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you set the culture to anything other than an English-based culture, this code analysis rule is silently disabled.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, correct the spelling of the word or add the word to a custom dictionary.

### To add words to a custom dictionary

Name the custom dictionary XML file *CustomDictionary.xml*. Place the dictionary in the installation directory of the tool, the project directory, or in the directory that is associated with the tool under the profile of the user (*%USERPROFILE%\Application Data\\...*). To learn how to add the custom dictionary to a project in Visual Studio, see [How to: Customize the Code Analysis Dictionary](../code-quality/how-to-customize-the-code-analysis-dictionary.md).

- Add words that should not cause a violation under the Dictionary/Words/Recognized path.

- Add words that should cause a violation under the Dictionary/Words/Unrecognized path.

- Add words that should be flagged as obsolete under the Dictionary/Words/Deprecated path. See the related rule topic [CA1726: Use preferred terms](../code-quality/ca1726.md) for more information.

- Add exceptions to the acronym casing rules to the Dictionary/Acronyms/CasingExceptions path.

The following is an example of the structure of a custom dictionary file:

```xml
<Dictionary>
   <Words>
      <Unrecognized>
         <Word>cb</Word>
      </Unrecognized>
      <Recognized>
         <Word>stylesheet</Word>
         <Word>GotDotNet</Word>
      </Recognized>
      <Deprecated>
         <Term PreferredAlternate="EnterpriseServices">ComPlus</Term>
      </Deprecated>
   </Words>
   <Acronyms>
      <CasingExceptions>
         <Acronym>CJK</Acronym>
         <Acronym>Pi</Acronym>
      </CasingExceptions>
   </Acronyms>
</Dictionary>
```

## When to suppress warnings

Suppress a warning from this rule only if the word is intentionally misspelled and the word applies to a limited set of the library. Correctly spelled words reduce the learning curve that is required for new software libraries.

## Related rules

- [CA2204: Literals should be spelled correctly](../code-quality/ca2204.md)
- [CA1703: Resource strings should be spelled correctly](../code-quality/ca1703.md)
- [CA1709: Identifiers should be cased correctly](../code-quality/ca1709.md)
- [CA1708: Identifiers should differ by more than case](../code-quality/ca1708.md)
- [CA1707: Identifiers should not contain underscores](../code-quality/ca1707.md)
- [CA1726: Use preferred terms](../code-quality/ca1726.md)

## See also

- [How to: Customize the Code Analysis Dictionary](../code-quality/how-to-customize-the-code-analysis-dictionary.md)
