---
title: 'CA1800: Do not cast unnecessarily'
ms.date: 10/26/2017
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1800
- DoNotCastUnnecessarily
helpviewer_keywords:
- DoNotCastUnnecessarily
- CA1800
ms.assetid: b79a010a-6627-421e-8955-6007e32fa808
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
dev_langs:
- VB
- CSharp
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1800: Do not cast unnecessarily

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1800|
|Category|Microsoft.Performance|
|Breaking change|Non-breaking|

## Cause
A method performs duplicate casts on one of its arguments or local variables.

For complete analysis by this rule, the tested assembly must be built by using debugging information, and the associated program database (.pdb) file must be available.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description
Duplicate casts decrease performance, especially when the casts are performed in compact iteration statements. For explicit duplicate cast operations, store the result of the cast in a local variable and use the local variable instead of the duplicate cast operations.

If the C# `is` operator is used to test whether the cast will succeed before the actual cast is performed, consider testing the result of the `as` operator instead. This provides the same functionality without the implicit cast operation that is performed by the `is` operator. Or, in C# 7.0 and later, use the `is` operator with [pattern matching](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/is#pattern-matching-with-is) to check the type conversion and cast the expression to a variable of that type in one step.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, modify the method implementation to minimize the number of cast operations.

## When to suppress warnings
It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule, or to ignore the rule completely, if performance is not a concern.

## Examples
The following example shows a method that violates the rule by using the C# `is` operator. A second method satisfies the rule by replacing the `is` operator with a test against the result of the `as` operator, which decreases the number of cast operations per iteration from two to one. A third method also satisfies the rule by using `is` with [pattern matching](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/is#pattern-matching-with-is) to create a variable of the desired type if the type conversion would succeed.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Performance.UnnecessaryCastsAsIs#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1800-do-not-cast-unnecessarily_1.cs)]

The following example shows a method, `start_Click`, that has multiple duplicate explicit casts, which violates the rule, and a method, `reset_Click`, which satisfies the rule by storing the cast in a local variable.

[!code-vb[FxCop.Performance.UnnecessaryCasts#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca1800-do-not-cast-unnecessarily_2.vb)]
[!code-csharp[FxCop.Performance.UnnecessaryCasts#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1800-do-not-cast-unnecessarily_2.cs)]

## See also

- [as (C# reference)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/as)
- [is (C# reference)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/is)
