---
title: 'CA2133: Delegates must bind to methods with consistent transparency'
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2133
ms.assetid: a09672e2-63cb-4abd-9e8f-dff515e101ce
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA2133: Delegates must bind to methods with consistent transparency

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA2133|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

> [!NOTE]
> This warning is only applied to code that is running the CoreCLR (the version of the CLR that is specific to Silverlight web applications).

## Cause
This warning fires on a method that binds a delegate that is marked with the <xref:System.Security.SecurityCriticalAttribute> to a method that is transparent or that is marked with the <xref:System.Security.SecuritySafeCriticalAttribute>. The warning also fires a method that binds a delegate that is transparent or safe-critical to a critical method.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description

Delegate types and the methods that they bind to must have consistent transparency. Transparent and safe-critical delegates may only bind to other transparent or safe-critical methods. Similarly, critical delegates may only bind to critical methods. These binding rules ensure that the only code that can invoke a method via a delegate could have also invoked the same method directly. For example, binding rules prevent transparent code from calling critical code directly via a transparent delegate.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this warning, change the transparency of the delegate or of the method that it binds so that the transparency of the two are equivalent.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

### Code

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.CA2133.DelegatesMustBindWithConsistentTransparency#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2133-delegates-must-bind-to-methods-with-consistent-transparency_1.cs)]
