---
title: 'CA2119: Seal methods that satisfy private interfaces'
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- SealMethodsThatSatisfyPrivateInterfaces
- CA2119
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2119
- SealMethodsThatSatisfyPrivateInterfaces
ms.assetid: 483d02e1-cfaf-4754-a98f-4116df0f3509
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA2119: Seal methods that satisfy private interfaces

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA2119|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause
An inheritable public type provides an overridable method implementation of an `internal` (`Friend` in Visual Basic) interface.

## Rule description
Interface methods have public accessibility, which cannot be changed by the implementing type. An internal interface creates a contract that is not intended to be implemented outside the assembly that defines the interface. A public type that implements a method of an internal interface using the `virtual` (`Overridable` in Visual Basic) modifier allows the method to be overridden by a derived type that is outside the assembly. If a second type in the defining assembly calls the method and expects an internal-only contract, behavior might be compromised when, instead, the overridden method in the outside assembly is executed. This creates a security vulnerability.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, prevent the method from being overridden outside the assembly by using one of the following:

- Make the declaring type `sealed` (`NotInheritable` in Visual Basic).

- Change the accessibility of the declaring type to `internal` (`Friend` in Visual Basic).

- Remove all public constructors from the declaring type.

- Implement the method without using the `virtual` modifier.

- Implement the method explicitly.

## When to suppress warnings
It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if, after careful review, no security issues exist that might be exploitable if the method is overridden outside the assembly.

## Example 1
The following example shows a type, `BaseImplementation`, that violates this rule.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.SealMethods1#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2119-seal-methods-that-satisfy-private-interfaces_1.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Security.SealMethods1#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca2119-seal-methods-that-satisfy-private-interfaces_1.vb)]

## Example 2
The following example exploits the virtual method implementation of the previous example.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.SealMethods2#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2119-seal-methods-that-satisfy-private-interfaces_2.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Security.SealMethods2#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca2119-seal-methods-that-satisfy-private-interfaces_2.vb)]

## See also

- [Interfaces](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/interfaces/index)
- [Interfaces](/dotnet/visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/interfaces/index)
