---
title: 'CA2122: Do not indirectly expose methods with link demands'
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2122
- DoNotIndirectlyExposeMethodsWithLinkDemands
helpviewer_keywords:
- DoNotIndirectlyExposeMethodsWithLinkDemands
- CA2122
ms.assetid: 3eda58e7-c6ec-41c3-8112-ae0841109c6a
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA2122: Do not indirectly expose methods with link demands

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA2122|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking change|Non-breaking|

## Cause
A public or protected member has a [Link Demands](/dotnet/framework/misc/link-demands) and is called by a member that does not perform any security checks.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description
A link demand checks the permissions of the immediate caller only. If a member `X` makes no security demands of its callers, and calls code protected by a link demand, a caller without the necessary permission can use `X` to access the protected member.

## How to fix violations
Add a security [Data and Modeling](/dotnet/framework/data/index) or link demand to the member so that it no longer provides unsecured access to the link demand-protected member.

## When to suppress warnings
To safely suppress a warning from this rule, you must make sure that your code does not grant its callers access to operations or resources that can be used in a destructive manner.

## Example 1
The following examples show a library that violates the rule, and an application that demonstrates the library's weakness. The sample library provides two methods that together violate the rule. The `EnvironmentSetting` method is secured by a link demand for unrestricted access to environment variables. The `DomainInformation` method makes no security demands of its callers before it calls `EnvironmentSetting`.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.UnsecuredDoNotCall#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2122-do-not-indirectly-expose-methods-with-link-demands_1.cs)]

## Example 2
The following application calls the unsecured library member.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.TestUnsecuredDoNot1#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2122-do-not-indirectly-expose-methods-with-link-demands_2.cs)]

This example produces the following output:

```txt
*Value from unsecured member: seattle.corp.contoso.com
```

## See also

- [Secure Coding Guidelines](/dotnet/standard/security/secure-coding-guidelines)
- [Link Demands](/dotnet/framework/misc/link-demands)
- [Data and Modeling](/dotnet/framework/data/index)
