---
title: "CA2137: Transparent methods must contain only verifiable IL"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2137"
ms.assetid: cbaeb0e1-56b6-43b4-812a-596b2859c329
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA2137: Transparent methods must contain only verifiable IL

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA2137|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause
A method contains unverifiable code or returns a type by reference.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description
This rule fires on attempts by security transparent code to execute unverifiable MSIL (Microsoft Intermediate Language). However, the rule does not contain a full IL verifier, and instead uses heuristics to catch most violations of MSIL verification.

To be certain that your code contains only verifiable MSIL, run [Peverify.exe (PEVerify Tool)](/dotnet/framework/tools/peverify-exe-peverify-tool) on your assembly. Run PEVerify with the **/transparent** option which limits the output to only unverifiable transparent methods which would cause an error. If the /transparent option is not used, PEVerify also verifies critical methods that are allowed to contain unverifiable code.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, mark the method with the <xref:System.Security.SecurityCriticalAttribute> or <xref:System.Security.SecuritySafeCriticalAttribute> attribute, or remove the unverifiable code.

## When to suppress warnings
Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## Example
The method in this example uses unverifiable code and should be marked with the <xref:System.Security.SecurityCriticalAttribute> or <xref:System.Security.SecuritySafeCriticalAttribute> attribute.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.CA2137.TransparentMethodsMustBeVerifiable#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2137-transparent-methods-must-contain-only-verifiable-il_1.cs)]
