---
title: "CA2126: Type link demands require inheritance demands"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2126"
  - "TypeLinkDemandsRequireInheritanceDemands"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA2126"
  - "TypeLinkDemandsRequireInheritanceDemands"
ms.assetid: 07b604e5-5579-4df9-a578-dadd0d8370a7
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA2126: Type link demands require inheritance demands

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA2126|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause
A public unsealed type is protected with a link demand, has an overridable method, and neither the type nor the method is protected with an inheritance demand.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description
A link demand on a method or its declaring type requires the immediate caller of the method to have the specified permission. An inheritance demand on a method requires an overriding method to have the specified permission. An inheritance demand on a type requires a deriving class to have the specified permission.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, secure the type or the method with an inheritance demand for the same permission as the link demand.

## When to suppress warnings
Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## Example
The following example shows a type that violates the rule.

[!code-vb[FxCop.Security.TypesWithLinkDemands#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca2126-type-link-demands-require-inheritance-demands_1.vb)]
[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.TypesWithLinkDemands#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2126-type-link-demands-require-inheritance-demands_1.cs)]

## Related rules
[CA2108: Review declarative security on value types](../code-quality/ca2108.md)

[CA2112: Secured types should not expose fields](../code-quality/ca2112.md)

[CA2122: Do not indirectly expose methods with link demands](../code-quality/ca2122.md)

[CA2123: Override link demands should be identical to base](../code-quality/ca2123.md)

## See also

- [Secure Coding Guidelines](/dotnet/standard/security/secure-coding-guidelines)
- [Link Demands](/dotnet/framework/misc/link-demands)
