docs/fsharp/language-reference/enumerations.md, before:

---
title: Enums
description: Learn how to use F# enumerations in place of literals to make your code more readable and maintainable.
ms.date: 11/04/2021
---
# Enumerations

*Enumerations*, also known as *enums*, are integral types where labels are assigned to a subset of the values. You can use them in place of literals to make code more readable and maintainable.

## Syntax

```fsharp
type enum-name =
| value1 = integer-literal1
| value2 = integer-literal2
...
```

## Remarks

An enumeration looks much like a discriminated union that has simple values, except that the values can be specified. The values are typically integers that start at 0 or 1, or integers that represent bit positions. If an enumeration is intended to represent bit positions, you should also use the [Flags](xref:System.FlagsAttribute) attribute.

The underlying type of the enumeration is determined from the literal that is used, so that, for example, you can use literals with a suffix, such as `1u`, `2u`, and so on, for an unsigned integer (`uint32`) type.

When you refer to the named values, you must use the name of the enumeration type itself as a qualifier, that is, `enum-name.value1`, not just `value1`. This behavior differs from that of discriminated unions. This is because enumerations always have the [RequireQualifiedAccess](https://fsharp.github.io/fsharp-core-docs/reference/fsharp-core-requirequalifiedaccessattribute.html) attribute.

The following code shows the declaration and use of an enumeration.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2101.fs)]

You can easily convert enumerations to the underlying type by using the appropriate operator, as shown in the following code.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2102.fs)]

Enumerated types can have one of the following underlying types: `sbyte`, `byte`, `int16`, `uint16`, `int32`, `uint32`, `int64`, `uint64`, and `char`. Enumeration types are represented in the .NET Framework as types that are inherited from `System.Enum`, which in turn is inherited from `System.ValueType`. Thus, they are value types that are located on the stack or inline in the containing object, and any value of the underlying type is a valid value of the enumeration. This is significant when pattern matching on enumeration values, because you have to provide a pattern that catches the unnamed values.

The `enum` function in the F# library can be used to generate an enumeration value, even a value other than one of the predefined, named values. You use the `enum` function as follows.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2103.fs)]

The default `enum` function works with type `int32`. Therefore, it cannot be used with enumeration types that have other underlying types. Instead, use the following.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2104.fs)]

Additionally, cases for enums are always emitted as `public`. This is so that they align with C# and the rest of the .NET platform.

## See also

- [F# Language Reference](index.md)
- [Casting and Conversions](casting-and-conversions.md)

Commit message:

Add note about exhaustive enum matching (#46067)
* Add note about exhaustive enum matching

* Update docs/fsharp/language-reference/enumerations.md

Co-authored-by: Tomas Grosup <tomasgrosup@microsoft.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Tomas Grosup <tomasgrosup@microsoft.com>

docs/fsharp/language-reference/enumerations.md, after:

---
title: Enums
description: Learn how to use F# enumerations in place of literals to make your code more readable and maintainable.
ms.date: 11/04/2021
---
# Enumerations

*Enumerations*, also known as *enums*, are integral types where labels are assigned to a subset of the values. You can use them in place of literals to make code more readable and maintainable.

## Syntax

```fsharp
type enum-name =
| value1 = integer-literal1
| value2 = integer-literal2
...
```

## Remarks

An enumeration looks much like a discriminated union that has simple values, except that the values can be specified. The values are typically integers that start at 0 or 1, or integers that represent bit positions. If an enumeration is intended to represent bit positions, you should also use the [Flags](xref:System.FlagsAttribute) attribute.

The underlying type of the enumeration is determined from the literal that is used, so that, for example, you can use literals with a suffix, such as `1u`, `2u`, and so on, for an unsigned integer (`uint32`) type.

When you refer to the named values, you must use the name of the enumeration type itself as a qualifier, that is, `enum-name.value1`, not just `value1`. This behavior differs from that of discriminated unions. This is because enumerations always have the [RequireQualifiedAccess](https://fsharp.github.io/fsharp-core-docs/reference/fsharp-core-requirequalifiedaccessattribute.html) attribute.

The following code shows the declaration and use of an enumeration.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2101.fs)]

You can easily convert enumerations to the underlying type by using the appropriate operator, as shown in the following code.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2102.fs)]

Enumerated types can have one of the following underlying types: `sbyte`, `byte`, `int16`, `uint16`, `int32`, `uint32`, `int64`, `uint64`, and `char`. Enumeration types are represented in the .NET Framework as types that are inherited from `System.Enum`, which in turn is inherited from `System.ValueType`. Thus, they are value types that are located on the stack or inline in the containing object, and any value of the underlying type is a valid value of the enumeration. This is significant when pattern matching on enumeration values, because you have to provide a pattern that catches the unnamed values.

The `enum` function in the F# library can be used to generate an enumeration value, even a value other than one of the predefined, named values. You use the `enum` function as follows.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2103.fs)]

The default `enum` function works with type `int32`. Therefore, it cannot be used with enumeration types that have other underlying types. Instead, use the following.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet2104.fs)]

Additionally, cases for enums are always emitted as `public`. This is so that they align with C# and the rest of the .NET platform.

To enable [exhaustive matching](match-expressions.md) for only the defined enum cases, you can suppress warning FS0104 using the directive `#nowarn "104"`. This allows the compiler to treat only declared enum values as valid during pattern matching, avoiding the need for a catch-all case — useful when you're certain all values are covered.

The warning FS0104 (`Enums may take values outside known cases.`) exists because enums can be assigned arbitrary underlying values, e.g. directly or as a result of [bitwise operations](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/enum#enumeration-types-as-bit-flags)

## See also

- [F# Language Reference](index.md)
- [Casting and Conversions](casting-and-conversions.md)
