---
title: "Using a Data Service in a Client Application (WCF Data Services)"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
ms.prod: ".net-framework-oob"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "dotnet-clr"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "WCF Data Services, client library"
  - "WCF Data Services, getting started"
ms.assetid: 90872d0c-e989-4490-b3e9-54afb10d33d4
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "dotnet-bot"
ms.author: "dotnetcontent"
manager: "wpickett"
ms.workload: 
  - "dotnet"
---
# Using a Data Service in a Client Application (WCF Data Services)
You can access a service that exposes an [!INCLUDE[ssODataFull](../../../../includes/ssodatafull-md.md)] feed by supplying a URI to a Web browser. The URI provides the address of a resource, and request messages are sent to these addresses to access or change the underlying data that the resource represents. The browser issues an HTTP GET command and returns the requested resource as an [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] feed. For more information, see [Accessing the Service from a Web Browser](../../../../docs/framework/data/wcf/accessing-the-service-from-a-web-browser-wcf-data-services-quickstart.md).  
  
 Although a Web browser may be useful for testing that an [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] service returns the expected data, production [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] services that enable you to also create, update, and delete data are generally accessed by application code or scripting languages in a Web page. This topic provides an overview of how to access [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] feeds from a client application.  
  
## Accessing and Changing Data Using REST Semantics  
 [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] helps guarantee interoperability between services that expose [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] feeds and applications that consume [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] feeds. Applications access and change data in an [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)]-based service by sending request messages of a specific HTTP action and with a URI that addresses an entity resource against which the action should be performed. When entity data must be supplied, it is supplied as a specifically encoded payload in the body of the message.  
  
### HTTP Actions  
 [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] supports the following HTTP actions to perform create, read, update, and delete operations on the entity data that the addressed resource represents:  
  
-   **HTTP GET** - This is the default action when a resource is accessed from a browser. No payload is supplied in the request message, and a response method with a payload that contains the requested data is returned.  
  
-   **HTTP POST** - Inserts new entity data into the supplied resource. Data to be inserted is supplied in the payload of the request message. The payload of the response message contains the data for the newly created entity. This includes any autogenerated key values. The header also contains the URI that addresses the new entity resource.  
  
-   **HTTP DELETE** - Deletes the entity data that the specified resource represents. A payload is not present in the request or response messages.  
  
-   **HTTP PUT** - Replaces existing entity data at the requested resource with new data that is supplied in the payload of the request message.  
  
-   **HTTP MERGE** - Because of inefficiencies in executing a delete followed by an insert in the data source just to change entity data, [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] introduces a new HTTP MERGE action. The payload of the request message contains the properties that must be changed on the addressed entity resource. Because HTTP MERGE is not defined in the HTTP specification, it may require additional processing to route a HTTP MERGE request through non-[!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] aware servers.  
  
 For more information, see [OData: Operations](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=185792).  
  
### Payload Formats  
 For an HTTP PUT, HTTP POST, or HTTP MERGE request, the payload of a request message contains the entity data that you send to the data service. The contents of the payload depend on the data format of the message. The HTTP responses to all actions except DELETE also contain such a payload. [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] supports the following payload formats for accessing and changing data with the service:  
  
-   **Atom** - An XML-based message encoding that is defined by [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] as an extension to the Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub) to enable data exchange over HTTP for Web feeds, podcasts, wikis, and XML-based Internet functionality. For more information, see [OData: Atom Format](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=185794).  
  
-   **JSON** - JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a lightweight data interchange format that is based on a subset of the JavaScript Programming Language. For more information, see [OData: JSON Format](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=185795).  
  
 The message format of the payload is requested in the header of the HTTP request message. For more information, see [OData: Operations](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=185792).  
  
## Accessing and Changing Data Using Client Libraries  
 [!INCLUDE[ssAstoria](../../../../includes/ssastoria-md.md)] includes client libraries that enable you to more easily consume an [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] feed from .NET Framework and Silverlight-based client applications. These libraries simplify sending and receiving HTTP messages. They also translate the message payload into CLR objects that represent entity data. The client libraries feature the two core classes <xref:System.Data.Services.Client.DataServiceContext> and <xref:System.Data.Services.Client.DataServiceQuery%601>. These classes enable you to query a data service and then work with the returned entity data as CLR objects. For more information, see [WCF Data Services Client Library](../../../../docs/framework/data/wcf/wcf-data-services-client-library.md) and [WCF Data Services (Silverlight)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c0cd9f4b-1372-48e4-9935-c8421239da30).  
  
 You can use the **Add Service Reference** dialog in Visual Studio to add a reference to a data service. This tool requests the service metadata from a referenced data service and generates the <xref:System.Data.Services.Client.DataServiceContext> that represents a data service, as well as generates the client data service classes that represent entities. For more information, see [Generating the Data Service Client Library](../../../../docs/framework/data/wcf/generating-the-data-service-client-library-wcf-data-services.md).  
  
 There are programming libraries available that you can use to consume an [!INCLUDE[ssODataShort](../../../../includes/ssodatashort-md.md)] feed in other kinds of client applications. For more information, see the [OData SDK](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=185796).  
  
## See Also  
 [Accessing Data Service Resources](../../../../docs/framework/data/wcf/accessing-data-service-resources-wcf-data-services.md)  
 [Quickstart](../../../../docs/framework/data/wcf/quickstart-wcf-data-services.md)
