docs/core/extensions/windows-service-with-installer.md, before:

---
title: Create a Windows Service installer
description: Learn how to create a Windows Service installer project.
author: IEvangelist
ms.author: dapine
ms.date: 06/06/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
---

# Create a Windows Service installer

When you create a .NET Windows Service (not to be mistaken with a .NET Framework Windows Service), you may want to create an installer for your service. Without an installer, users would have to know how to install and configure your service. An installer bundles your app's executables and exposes a customizable installation user experience.

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> - Install the Visual Studio Installer Projects extension.
> - Create a setup project.
> - Update an existing .NET Worker project to support installation.
> - Automate the installation and uninstallation with the Windows Service Control Manager.

## Prerequisites

- The [.NET 6.0 SDK or later](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet)
- A Windows OS
- A .NET integrated development environment (IDE)
  - Feel free to use [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com)
- An existing .NET Windows Service

## Install the extension

Install the [Microsoft Visual Studio Installer Projects extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioClient.MicrosoftVisualStudio2022InstallerProjects). After installing, restart Visual Studio and you'll see new project templates available.

## Update existing project

This tutorial is based on the app created as part of the [Create a Windows Service using `BackgroundService`](windows-service.md) tutorial. You can either clone the sample repo or use the app you built in the previous tutorial.

[!INCLUDE [workers-samples-browser](includes/workers-samples-browser.md)]

Open the solution in Visual Studio, and select <kbd>F5</kbd> to ensure that the app builds and runs as expected. Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> to stop the app.

### Handle installation switches

The Windows Service app needs to handle installation switches. The setup project will call into the Windows Service app with `/Install` and `/Uninstall` switches during installation and uninstallation respectively. When these switches are present, the app will behave differently, in that it will only perform installation or uninstallation using the Windows Service Control Manager executable (_sc.exe_).

For the app to call a separate process, install the [CliWrap](https://www.nuget.org/packages/CliWrap) NuGet package as a convenience. To install the `CliWrap` package, use the `dotnet add package` command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet add App.WindowsService.csproj package CliWrap
```

For more information, see [dotnet add package](../tools/dotnet-add-package.md).

With `CliWrap` installed, open the _Program.cs_ file of the `App.WindowsService` project. After the `using` statements, but before the `IHost` is created, add the following code:

```csharp
using CliWrap;

const string ServiceName = ".NET Joke Service";

if (args is { Length: 1 })
{
    try
    {
        string executablePath =
            Path.Combine(AppContext.BaseDirectory, "App.WindowsService.exe");
    
        if (args[0] is "/Install")
        {
            await Cli.Wrap("sc")
                .WithArguments(new[] { "create", ServiceName, $"binPath={executablePath}", "start=auto" })
                .ExecuteAsync();
        }
        else if (args[0] is "/Uninstall")
        {
            await Cli.Wrap("sc")
                .WithArguments(new[] { "stop", ServiceName })
                .ExecuteAsync();
    
            await Cli.Wrap("sc")
                .WithArguments(new[] { "delete", ServiceName })
                .ExecuteAsync();
        }
    }
    catch (Exception ex)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(ex);
        return 1;
    }

    return 0;
}
```

The preceding code:

- Declares the service name as a `const string` value.
- Checks the `args` for a single value.
- Gets the executable path from the <xref:System.AppContext.BaseDirectory?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
- When the `"/Install"` switch is present, `sc create ".NET Joke Service" binPath="path/to/App.WindowsService.exe" start=auto` is called.
- When the `"/Uninstall"` switch is present, `sc stop ".NET Joke Service"` and `sc delete ".NET Joke Service"` are called.

When no installation switches are present, the app behaves as it did before, but it now includes installation functionality.

## Add new setup project

To add a new setup project, right-click on the solution in the **Solution Explorer** and select **Add > New Project**:

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/new-setup-project.png" alt-text="Add new project dialog: New Setup Project.":::

Select **Setup Project** from the available templates, then select **Next**. Provide the desired **Name** and **Location**, then select **Create**.

### Configure installer project

To configure the install project, select the project in the **Solution Explorer**. Select <kbd>F4</kbd> to open the project properties pane. You can configure the app's "add" and "remove" icons, author, manufacturer, product name, title, target platform, and so on.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/f4-installer-properties.png" alt-text="Installer project properties pane.":::

The installer project needs to define two custom actions for installation behavior. Right-click the project in the **Solution Explorer**, and then select **View > Custom Actions**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/custom-actions.png" alt-text="Installer project Custom Actions context menu.":::

From the **Custom Actions** window, select **Install > Add Custom Action**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/select-item.png" alt-text="Custom Actions properties dialog: select item.":::

Double-click the **Application Folder**, and select **Publish Items from App.WindowsService (Active)**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/select-item-publish.png" alt-text="Custom Actions properties dialog: select item app folder.":::

Select **Ok** to confirm the selection. Right-click the added **Publish Items from App.WindowsService (Active)** node under **Install**, then select **Properties**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/install-properties.png" alt-text="Publish items properties.":::

Add `/Install` to the **Arguments**. Follow these same steps for **Uninstall**, adding `/Uninstall` to the **Arguments**.

Once you've done both, you should see the following:

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/custom-actions-added.png" alt-text="Custom Actions with Install and Uninstall actions defined.":::

With these updates, the setup project has been configured to delegate its *Install* and *Uninstall* actions to call into the Windows Service app with appropriate arguments.

## Test installation

To test the installer, expand **Solution Configurations** in Visual Studio, and select **Release** (assuming **Debug** was selected). Build the solution and then right-click on the setup project and select **Build**. By default, setup projects are not part of the build.

Select **View > Output**, and ensure that the **Show output from** dropdown has **Build** selected. The Microsoft Installer (MSI) file path is displayed. Copy the path, and open the installer. Run the installer:

:::row:::
    :::column:::
        **1. Installer welcome dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-welcome.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-welcome.png" alt-text="Installer welcome dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column:::
        **2. Installer select folder dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-select-folder.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-select-folder.png" alt-text="Installer select folder dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

:::row:::
    :::column:::
        **3. Installer confirm dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-confirm.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-confirm.png" alt-text="Installer confirm dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column:::
        **4. Installer complete dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-complete.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-complete.png" alt-text="Installer complete dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

Once the service is installed, you can open **Services** to start the service. To uninstall the service, use the **Windows Add or Remove Programs** feature to call the installer.

## See also

- [Worker Services in .NET](workers.md)
- [Create a Queue Service](queue-service.md)
- [Use scoped services within a `BackgroundService`](scoped-service.md)
- [Implement the `IHostedService` interface](timer-service.md)

Commit message:

Lift existing tutorial as continuation/prerequisite

docs/core/extensions/windows-service-with-installer.md, after:

---
title: Create a Windows Service installer
description: Learn how to create a Windows Service installer project.
author: IEvangelist
ms.author: dapine
ms.date: 06/07/2023
ms.topic: tutorial
---

# Create a Windows Service installer

When you create a .NET Windows Service (not to be mistaken with a .NET Framework Windows Service), you may want to create an installer for your service. Without an installer, users would have to know how to install and configure your service. An installer bundles your app's executables and exposes a customizable installation user experience. This tutorial is a continuation of the [Create a Windows Service](windows-service.md) tutorial, and will show you how to create an installer for your .NET Windows Service.

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> - Install the Visual Studio Installer Projects extension.
> - Create a setup project.
> - Update an existing .NET Worker project to support installation.
> - Automate the installation and uninstallation with the Windows Service Control Manager.

## Prerequisites

- You're expected to have completed the [Create a Windows Service](windows-service.md) tutorial, or be prepared to clone it from the sample repo.
- The [.NET 6.0 SDK or later](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet)
- A Windows OS
- A .NET integrated development environment (IDE)
  - Feel free to use [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com)
- An existing .NET Windows Service

## Install the extension

Install the [Microsoft Visual Studio Installer Projects extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioClient.MicrosoftVisualStudio2022InstallerProjects). After installing, restart Visual Studio and you'll see new project templates available.

## Update existing project

This tutorial is based on the app created as part of the [Create a Windows Service using `BackgroundService`](windows-service.md) tutorial. You can either clone the sample repo or use the app you built in the previous tutorial.

[!INCLUDE [workers-samples-browser](includes/workers-samples-browser.md)]

Open the solution in Visual Studio, and select <kbd>F5</kbd> to ensure that the app builds and runs as expected. Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> to stop the app.

### Handle installation switches

The Windows Service app needs to handle installation switches. The setup project will call into the Windows Service app with `/Install` and `/Uninstall` switches during installation and uninstallation respectively. When these switches are present, the app will behave differently, in that it will only perform installation or uninstallation using the Windows Service Control Manager executable (_sc.exe_).

For the app to call a separate process, install the [CliWrap](https://www.nuget.org/packages/CliWrap) NuGet package as a convenience. To install the `CliWrap` package, use the `dotnet add package` command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet add App.WindowsService.csproj package CliWrap
```

For more information, see [dotnet add package](../tools/dotnet-add-package.md).

With `CliWrap` installed, open the _Program.cs_ file of the `App.WindowsService` project. After the `using` statements, but before the `IHost` is created, add the following code:

```csharp
using CliWrap;

const string ServiceName = ".NET Joke Service";

if (args is { Length: 1 })
{
    try
    {
        string executablePath =
            Path.Combine(AppContext.BaseDirectory, "App.WindowsService.exe");
    
        if (args[0] is "/Install")
        {
            await Cli.Wrap("sc")
                .WithArguments(new[] { "create", ServiceName, $"binPath={executablePath}", "start=auto" })
                .ExecuteAsync();
        }
        else if (args[0] is "/Uninstall")
        {
            await Cli.Wrap("sc")
                .WithArguments(new[] { "stop", ServiceName })
                .ExecuteAsync();
    
            await Cli.Wrap("sc")
                .WithArguments(new[] { "delete", ServiceName })
                .ExecuteAsync();
        }
    }
    catch (Exception ex)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(ex);
    }

    return;
}
```

The preceding code:

- Declares the service name as a `const string` value.
- Checks the `args` for a single value.
- Gets the executable path from the <xref:System.AppContext.BaseDirectory?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
- When the `"/Install"` switch is present, `sc create ".NET Joke Service" binPath="path/to/App.WindowsService.exe" start=auto` is called.
- When the `"/Uninstall"` switch is present, `sc stop ".NET Joke Service"` and `sc delete ".NET Joke Service"` are called.

When no installation switches are present, the app behaves as it did before, but it now includes installation functionality.

## Add new setup project

To add a new setup project, right-click on the solution in the **Solution Explorer** and select **Add > New Project**:

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/new-setup-project.png" alt-text="Add new project dialog: New Setup Project.":::

Select **Setup Project** from the available templates, then select **Next**. Provide the desired **Name** and **Location**, then select **Create**.

### Configure installer project

To configure the installer project, select the project in the **Solution Explorer**. Select <kbd>F4</kbd> to open the project properties pane. You can configure the app's "add" and "remove" icons, author, manufacturer, product name, title, target platform, and so on.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/f4-installer-properties.png" alt-text="Installer project properties pane.":::

The installer project needs to define two custom actions for installation behavior. Right-click the project in the **Solution Explorer**, and then select **View > Custom Actions**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/custom-actions.png" alt-text="Installer project Custom Actions context menu.":::

From the **Custom Actions** window, select **Install > Add Custom Action**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/select-item.png" alt-text="Custom Actions properties dialog: select item.":::

Double-click the **Application Folder**, and select **Publish Items from App.WindowsService (Active)**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/select-item-publish.png" alt-text="Custom Actions properties dialog: select item app folder.":::

Select **Ok** to confirm the selection. Right-click the added **Publish Items from App.WindowsService (Active)** node under **Install**, then select **Properties**.

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/install-properties.png" alt-text="Publish items properties.":::

Add `/Install` to the **Arguments**. Follow these same steps for **Uninstall**, adding `/Uninstall` to the **Arguments**.

Once you've done both, you should see the following:

:::image type="content" source="media/workers/custom-actions-added.png" alt-text="Custom Actions with Install and Uninstall actions defined.":::

With these updates, the setup project has been configured to delegate its *Install* and *Uninstall* actions to call into the Windows Service app with appropriate arguments.

## Test installation

To test the installer, expand **Solution Configurations** in Visual Studio, and select **Release** (assuming **Debug** was selected). Build the solution and then right-click on the setup project and select **Build**. By default, setup projects are not part of the build.

Select **View > Output**, and ensure that the **Show output from** dropdown has **Build** selected. The Microsoft Installer (MSI) file path is displayed. Copy the path, and open the installer. Run the installer:

:::row:::
    :::column:::
        **1. Installer welcome dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-welcome.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-welcome.png" alt-text="Installer welcome dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column:::
        **2. Installer select folder dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-select-folder.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-select-folder.png" alt-text="Installer select folder dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

:::row:::
    :::column:::
        **3. Installer confirm dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-confirm.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-confirm.png" alt-text="Installer confirm dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column:::
        **4. Installer complete dialog**
        :::image type="content" source="media/workers/installer-complete.png" lightbox="media/workers/installer-complete.png" alt-text="Installer complete dialog.":::
    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

Once the service is installed, you can open **Services** to start the service. To uninstall the service, use the **Windows Add or Remove Programs** feature to call the installer.

## See also

- [Worker Services in .NET](workers.md)
- [Create a Queue Service](queue-service.md)
- [Use scoped services within a `BackgroundService`](scoped-service.md)
- [Implement the `IHostedService` interface](timer-service.md)
