---
title: "Compiler Error CS0825"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
f1_keywords: 
  - "CS0825"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "CS0825"
ms.assetid: 49393d23-ec5f-4b44-a3fd-7e0a95ac0edd
---
# Compiler Error CS0825
The contextual keyword 'var' may only appear within a local variable declaration.  
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
 Implicit typing with the `var` keyword can only be applied to variables at local method scope. Implicit typing is not available for class fields as the C# compiler would encounter a logical paradox as it processed the code: the compiler needs to know the type of the field, but it cannot determine the type until the assignment expression is analyzed, and the expression cannot be evaluated without knowing the type. Consider the following code:

 ```csharp
private var bookTitles;
 ```
`bookTitles` is a class field given the type `var`. As the field has no expression to evaluate, it is impossible for the compiler to infer what type `bookTitles` is supposed to be. In addition, adding an expression to the field (like you would for a local variable) is also insufficient:

```csharp
private var bookTitles = new List<string>();
```
When the compiler encounters fields during code compilation, it records each field's type before processing any expressions associated with it. The compiler encounters the same paradox trying to parse `bookTitles`: it needs to know the type of the field, but the compiler would normally determine `var`'s type by evaluating the expression, which isn't possible without knowing the type beforehand. 
=======
 Implicit typing with the `var` keyword can only be applied to variables at local method scope.  
>>>>>>> parent of 24d55de58f... playing around with add'l context for cs0825
  
## To correct this error  
  
1.  If the variable belongs at class scope, give it an explicit type.  Otherwise move it inside the method where it will be used.  
  
## Example  
 The following code generates CS0825 because `var` is used on a class field:  
  
```csharp  
// cs0825.cs  
class Test  
{  
    // Both of these declarations trigger CS0825
    private var genreName;   
    private var bookTitles = new List<string>();
  
    static int Main()  
    {  
        var totalBooks = 42; // var is OK here  
        return -1;  
    }  
}  
```  
  
## See Also

- [Implicitly Typed Local Variables](../../csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/implicitly-typed-local-variables.md)
