docs/csharp/language-reference/operators/member-access-operators.md, before:

---
title: "Member access and null-conditional operators and expressions:"
description: "C# operators that you use to access type members or null-conditionally access type members. These operators include the dot operator - `.`, indexers - `[`, `]`, `^` and `..`, and invocation - `(`, `)`."
ms.date: 07/31/2024
author: pkulikov
f1_keywords:
  - "._CSharpKeyword"
  - "[]_CSharpKeyword"
  - "()_CSharpKeyword"
  - "^_CSharpKeyword"
  - ".._CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "member access operators [C#]"
  - "member access operator [C#]"
  - "dot operator [C#]"
  - ". operator [C#]"
  - "subscript operator [C#]"
  - "square brackets [] operator [C#]"
  - "indexer operator [C#]"
  - "[] operator [C#]"
  - "null-conditional operators [C#]"
  - "Elvis operator [C#]"
  - "?. operator [C#]"
  - "?[] operator [C#]"
  - "invocation operator [C#]"
  - "method call [C#]"
  - "method invocation [C#]"
  - "delegate invocation [C#]"
  - "() operator [C#]"
  - "^ operator [C#]"
  - "index from end operator [C#]"
  - "hat operator [C#]"
  - ".. operator [C#]"
  - "range operator [C#]"
---
# Member access operators and expressions - the dot, indexer, and invocation operators.

You use several operators and expressions to access a type member. These operators include member access (`.`), array element or indexer access (`[]`), index-from-end (`^`), range (`..`), null-conditional operators (`?.` and `?[]`), and method invocation (`()`). These include the *null-conditional* member access (`?.`), and indexer access (`?[]`) operators.

- [`.` (member access)](#member-access-expression-): to access a member of a namespace or a type
- [`[]` (array element or indexer access)](#indexer-operator-): to access an array element or a type indexer
- [`?.` and `?[]` (null-conditional operators)](#null-conditional-operators--and-): to perform a member or element access operation only if an operand is non-null
- [`()` (invocation)](#invocation-expression-): to call an accessed method or invoke a delegate
- [`^` (index from end)](#index-from-end-operator-): to indicate that the element position is from the end of a sequence
- [`..` (range)](#range-operator-): to specify a range of indices that you can use to obtain a range of sequence elements

## Member access expression `.`

You use the `.` token to access a member of a namespace or a type, as the following examples demonstrate:

- Use `.` to access a nested namespace within a namespace, as the following example of a [`using` directive](../keywords/using-directive.md) shows:

 :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="NestedNamespace":::

- Use `.` to form a *qualified name* to access a type within a namespace, as the following code shows:

 :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="QualifiedName":::

  Use a [`using` directive](../keywords/using-directive.md) to make the use of qualified names optional.

- Use `.` to access [type members](../../fundamentals/object-oriented/index.md#members), static and nonstatic, as the following code shows:

 :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="TypeMemberAccess" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

You can also use `.` to access an [extension method](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/extension-methods.md).

## Indexer operator []

Square brackets, `[]`, are typically used for array, indexer, or pointer element access. Beginning with C# 12, `[]` encloses a [collection expression](./collection-expressions.md).

### Array access

The following example demonstrates how to access array elements:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Arrays" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

If an array index is outside the bounds of the corresponding dimension of an array, an <xref:System.IndexOutOfRangeException> is thrown.

As the preceding example shows, you also use square brackets when you declare an array type or instantiate an array instance.

For more information about arrays, see [Arrays](../builtin-types/arrays.md).

### Indexer access

The following example uses the .NET <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602> type to demonstrate indexer access:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Indexers" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

Indexers allow you to index instances of a user-defined type in the similar way as array indexing. Unlike array indices, which must be integer, the indexer parameters can be declared to be of any type.

For more information about indexers, see [Indexers](../../programming-guide/indexers/index.md).

### Other usages of []

For information about pointer element access, see the [Pointer element access operator []](pointer-related-operators.md#pointer-element-access-operator-) section of the [Pointer related operators](pointer-related-operators.md) article. For information about collection expressions, see the [collection expressions](./collection-expressions.md) article.

You also use square brackets to specify [attributes](/dotnet/csharp/advanced-topics/reflection-and-attributes):

```csharp
[System.Diagnostics.Conditional("DEBUG")]
void TraceMethod() {}
```

Additionally, square brackets can be used to designate [list patterns](../../fundamentals/functional/pattern-matching.md) for use in pattern matching or testing.

```csharp
arr is ([1, 2, ..])
//Specifies that an array starts with (1, 2)
```

## Null-conditional operators `?.` and `?[]`

A null-conditional operator applies a [member access](#member-access-expression-) (`?.`) or [element access](#indexer-operator-) (`?[]`) operation to its operand only if that operand evaluates to non-null; otherwise, it returns `null`. In other words:

- If `a` evaluates to `null`, the result of `a?.x` or `a?[x]` is `null`.
- If `a` evaluates to non-null, the result of `a?.x` or `a?[x]` is the same as the result of `a.x` or `a[x]`, respectively.

  > [!NOTE]
  > If `a.x` or `a[x]` throws an exception, `a?.x` or `a?[x]` would throw the same exception for non-null `a`. For example, if `a` is a non-null array instance and `x` is outside the bounds of `a`, `a?[x]` would throw an <xref:System.IndexOutOfRangeException>.

The null-conditional operators are short-circuiting. That is, if one operation in a chain of conditional member or element access operations returns `null`, the rest of the chain doesn't execute. In the following example, `B` isn't evaluated if `A` evaluates to `null` and `C` isn't evaluated if `A` or `B` evaluates to `null`:

```csharp
A?.B?.Do(C);
A?.B?[C];
```

If `A` might be null but `B` and `C` wouldn't be null if A isn't null, you only need to apply the null-conditional operator to `A`:

```csharp
A?.B.C();
```

In the preceding example, `B` isn't evaluated and `C()` isn't called if `A` is null. However, if the chained member access is interrupted, for example by parentheses as in `(A?.B).C()`, short-circuiting doesn't happen.

The following examples demonstrate the usage of the `?.` and `?[]` operators:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="SnippetNullConditional" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators2.cs" interactive="try-dotnet":::

The first of the preceding two examples also uses the [null-coalescing operator `??`](null-coalescing-operator.md) to specify an alternative expression to evaluate in case the result of a null-conditional operation is `null`.

If `a.x` or `a[x]` is of a non-nullable value type `T`, `a?.x` or `a?[x]` is of the corresponding [nullable value type](../builtin-types/nullable-value-types.md) `T?`. If you need an expression of type `T`, apply the null-coalescing operator `??` to a null-conditional expression, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="NullConditionalWithNullCoalescing" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

In the preceding example, if you don't use the `??` operator, `numbers?.Length < 2` evaluates to `false` when `numbers` is `null`.

> [!NOTE]
> The `?.` operator evaluates its left-hand operand no more than once, guaranteeing that it cannot be changed to `null` after being verified as non-null.

The null-conditional member access operator `?.` is also known as the Elvis operator.

### Thread-safe delegate invocation

Use the `?.` operator to check if a delegate is non-null and invoke it in a thread-safe way (for example, when you [raise an event](../../../standard/events/how-to-raise-and-consume-events.md)), as the following code shows:

```csharp
PropertyChanged?.Invoke(…)
```

That code is equivalent to the following code:

```csharp
var handler = this.PropertyChanged;
if (handler != null)
{
    handler(…);
}
```

The preceding example is a thread-safe way to ensure that only a non-null `handler` is invoked. Because delegate instances are immutable, no thread can change the object referenced by the `handler` local variable. In particular, if the code executed by another thread unsubscribes from the `PropertyChanged` event and `PropertyChanged` becomes `null` before `handler` is invoked, the object referenced by `handler` remains unaffected.

## Invocation expression ()

Use parentheses, `()`, to call a [method](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/methods.md) or invoke a [delegate](../../programming-guide/delegates/index.md).

The following example demonstrates how to call a method, with or without arguments, and invoke a delegate:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Invocation" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

You also use parentheses when you invoke a [constructor](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors.md) with the [`new`](new-operator.md) operator.

### Other usages of ()

You also use parentheses to adjust the order in which to evaluate operations in an expression. For more information, see [C# operators](index.md).

[Cast expressions](type-testing-and-cast.md#cast-expression), which perform explicit type conversions, also use parentheses.

## Index from end operator ^

Index and range operators can be used with a type that is *countable*. A *countable* type is a type that has an `int` property named either `Count` or `Length` with an accessible `get` accessor. [Collection expressions](./collection-expressions.md) also rely on *countable* types.

The `^` operator indicates the element position from the end of a sequence. For a sequence of length `length`, `^n` points to the element with offset `length - n` from the start of a sequence. For example, `^1` points to the last element of a sequence and `^length` points to the first element of a sequence.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="IndexFromEnd":::

As the preceding example shows, expression `^e` is of the <xref:System.Index?displayProperty=nameWithType> type. In expression `^e`, the result of `e` must be implicitly convertible to `int`.

You can also use the `^` operator with the [range operator](#range-operator-) to create a range of indices. For more information, see [Indices and ranges](../../tutorials/ranges-indexes.md).

Beginning with C# 13, the Index from the end operator can be used in an object initializer.

## Range operator `..`

The `..` operator specifies the start and end of a range of indices as its operands. The left-hand operand is an *inclusive* start of a range. The right-hand operand is an *exclusive* end of a range. Either of the operands can be an index from the start or from the end of a sequence, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Ranges":::

As the preceding example shows, expression `a..b` is of the <xref:System.Range?displayProperty=nameWithType> type. In expression `a..b`, the results of `a` and `b` must be implicitly convertible to <xref:System.Int32> or <xref:System.Index>.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Implicit conversions from `int` to `Index` throw an <xref:System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException> when the value is negative.

You can omit any of the operands of the `..` operator to obtain an open-ended range:

- `a..` is equivalent to `a..^0`
- `..b` is equivalent to `0..b`
- `..` is equivalent to `0..^0`

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="RangesOptional":::

The following table shows various ways to express collection ranges:

| Range operator expression | Description                                                                      |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `..`                      | All values in the collection.                                                    |
| `..end`                   | Values from the start to the `end` exclusively.                                  |
| `start..`                 | Values from the `start` inclusively to the end.                                  |
| `start..end`              | Values from the `start` inclusively to the `end` exclusively.                    |
| `^start..`                | Values from the `start` inclusively to the end counting from the end.            |
| `..^end`                  | Values from the start to the `end` exclusively counting from the end.            |
| `start..^end`             | Values from `start` inclusively to `end` exclusively counting from the end.      |
| `^start..^end`            | Values from `start` inclusively to `end` exclusively both counting from the end. |

The following example demonstrates the effect of using all the ranges presented in the preceding table:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="RangesAllPossible":::

For more information, see [Indices and ranges](../../tutorials/ranges-indexes.md).

The `..` token is also used for the [spread element](./collection-expressions.md#spread-element) in a collection expression.

## Operator overloadability

The `.`, `()`, `^`, and `..` operators can't be overloaded. The `[]` operator is also considered a non-overloadable operator. Use [indexers](../../programming-guide/indexers/index.md) to support indexing with user-defined types.

## C# language specification

For more information, see the following sections of the [C# language specification](~/_csharpstandard/standard/README.md):

- [Member access](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#1287-member-access)
- [Element access](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#12812-element-access)
- [Null-conditional member access](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#1288-null-conditional-member-access)
- [Invocation expressions](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#12810-invocation-expressions)

For more information about indices and ranges, see the [feature proposal note](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/ranges.md).

## See also

- [Use index operator (style rule IDE0056)](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0056.md)
- [Use range operator (style rule IDE0057)](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0057.md)
- [Use conditional delegate call (style rule IDE1005)](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide1005.md)
- [C# operators and expressions](index.md)
- [?? (null-coalescing operator)](null-coalescing-operator.md)
- [:: operator](namespace-alias-qualifier.md)

Commit message:

Add reference for null conditional assignment (#45637)
* Add reference for null conditional assignment

Fixes #45610

Add language reference material for the null conditional assignment.

* Add links from Whats New in C#

Also, fix warnings.

* typo

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Genevieve Warren <24882762+gewarren@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Genevieve Warren <24882762+gewarren@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/csharp/language-reference/operators/member-access-operators.md, after:

---
title: "Member access and null-conditional operators and expressions:"
description: "C# operators that you use to access type members or null-conditionally access type members. These operators include the dot operator - `.`, indexers - `[`, `]`, `^` and `..`, and invocation - `(`, `)`."
ms.date: 04/04/2025
author: pkulikov
f1_keywords:
  - "._CSharpKeyword"
  - "[]_CSharpKeyword"
  - "()_CSharpKeyword"
  - "^_CSharpKeyword"
  - ".._CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "member access operators [C#]"
  - "member access operator [C#]"
  - "dot operator [C#]"
  - ". operator [C#]"
  - "subscript operator [C#]"
  - "square brackets [] operator [C#]"
  - "indexer operator [C#]"
  - "[] operator [C#]"
  - "null-conditional operators [C#]"
  - "Elvis operator [C#]"
  - "?. operator [C#]"
  - "?[] operator [C#]"
  - "invocation operator [C#]"
  - "method call [C#]"
  - "method invocation [C#]"
  - "delegate invocation [C#]"
  - "() operator [C#]"
  - "^ operator [C#]"
  - "index from end operator [C#]"
  - "hat operator [C#]"
  - ".. operator [C#]"
  - "range operator [C#]"
---
# Member access operators and expressions - the dot, indexer, and invocation operators.

You use several operators and expressions to access a type member. Member access operators include member access (`.`), array element, or indexer access (`[]`), index-from-end (`^`), range (`..`), null-conditional operators (`?.` and `?[]`), and method invocation (`()`). These include the *null-conditional* member access (`?.`), and indexer access (`?[]`) operators.

- [`.` (member access)](#member-access-expression-): to access a member of a namespace or a type
- [`[]` (array element or indexer access)](#indexer-operator-): to access an array element or a type indexer
- [`?.` and `?[]` (null-conditional operators)](#null-conditional-operators--and-): to perform a member or element access operation only if an operand is non-null
- [`()` (invocation)](#invocation-expression-): to call an accessed method or invoke a delegate
- [`^` (index from end)](#index-from-end-operator-): to indicate that the element position is from the end of a sequence
- [`..` (range)](#range-operator-): to specify a range of indices that you can use to obtain a range of sequence elements

## Member access expression `.`

You use the `.` token to access a member of a namespace or a type, as the following examples demonstrate:

- Use `.` to access a nested namespace within a namespace, as the following example of a [`using` directive](../keywords/using-directive.md) shows:

 :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="NestedNamespace":::

- Use `.` to form a *qualified name* to access a type within a namespace, as the following code shows:

 :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="QualifiedName":::

  Use a [`using` directive](../keywords/using-directive.md) to make the use of qualified names optional.

- Use `.` to access [type members](../../fundamentals/object-oriented/index.md#members), static and nonstatic, as the following code shows:

 :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="TypeMemberAccess" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

You can also use `.` to access an [extension method](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/extension-methods.md).

## Indexer operator []

Square brackets, `[]`, are typically used for array, indexer, or pointer element access. Beginning with C# 12, `[]` encloses a [collection expression](./collection-expressions.md).

### Array access

The following example demonstrates how to access array elements:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Arrays" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

If an array index is outside the bounds of the corresponding dimension of an array, an <xref:System.IndexOutOfRangeException> is thrown.

As the preceding example shows, you also use square brackets when you declare an array type or instantiate an array instance.

For more information about arrays, see [Arrays](../builtin-types/arrays.md).

### Indexer access

The following example uses the .NET <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602> type to demonstrate indexer access:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Indexers" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

Indexers allow you to index instances of a user-defined type in the similar way as array indexing. Unlike array indices, which must be integer, the indexer parameters can be declared to be of any type.

For more information about indexers, see [Indexers](../../programming-guide/indexers/index.md).

### Other usages of []

For information about pointer element access, see the [Pointer element access operator []](pointer-related-operators.md#pointer-element-access-operator-) section of the [Pointer related operators](pointer-related-operators.md) article. For information about collection expressions, see the [collection expressions](./collection-expressions.md) article.

You also use square brackets to specify [attributes](/dotnet/csharp/advanced-topics/reflection-and-attributes):

```csharp
[System.Diagnostics.Conditional("DEBUG")]
void TraceMethod() {}
```

Additionally, square brackets can be used to designate [list patterns](../../fundamentals/functional/pattern-matching.md) for use in pattern matching or testing.

```csharp
arr is ([1, 2, ..])
//Specifies that an array starts with (1, 2)
```

## Null-conditional operators `?.` and `?[]`

A null-conditional operator applies a [member access](#member-access-expression-) (`?.`) or [element access](#indexer-operator-) (`?[]`) operation to its operand only if that operand evaluates to non-null; otherwise, it returns `null`. In other words:

- If `a` evaluates to `null`, the result of `a?.x` or `a?[x]` is `null`.
- If `a` evaluates to non-null, the result of `a?.x` or `a?[x]` is the same as the result of `a.x` or `a[x]`, respectively.

  > [!NOTE]
  > If `a.x` or `a[x]` throws an exception, `a?.x` or `a?[x]` would throw the same exception for non-null `a`. For example, if `a` is a non-null array instance and `x` is outside the bounds of `a`, `a?[x]` would throw an <xref:System.IndexOutOfRangeException>.

The null-conditional operators are short-circuiting. That is, if one operation in a chain of conditional member or element access operations returns `null`, the rest of the chain doesn't execute. In the following example, `B` isn't evaluated if `A` evaluates to `null` and `C` isn't evaluated if `A` or `B` evaluates to `null`:

```csharp
A?.B?.Do(C);
A?.B?[C];
```

If `A` might be null but `B` and `C` wouldn't be null if A isn't null, you only need to apply the null-conditional operator to `A`:

```csharp
A?.B.C();
```

In the preceding example, `B` isn't evaluated and `C()` isn't called if `A` is null. However, if the chained member access is interrupted, for example by parentheses as in `(A?.B).C()`, short-circuiting doesn't happen.

The following examples demonstrate the usage of the `?.` and `?[]` operators:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="SnippetNullConditional" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators2.cs" interactive="try-dotnet":::

The first preceding example also uses the [null-coalescing operator `??`](null-coalescing-operator.md) to specify an alternative expression to evaluate in case the result of a null-conditional operation is `null`.

If `a.x` or `a[x]` is of a non-nullable value type `T`, `a?.x` or `a?[x]` is of the corresponding [nullable value type](../builtin-types/nullable-value-types.md) `T?`. If you need an expression of type `T`, apply the null-coalescing operator `??` to a null-conditional expression, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="NullConditionalWithNullCoalescing" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

In the preceding example, if you don't use the `??` operator, `numbers?.Length < 2` evaluates to `false` when `numbers` is `null`.

> [!NOTE]
> The `?.` operator evaluates its left-hand operand no more than once, guaranteeing that it can't be changed to `null` after being verified as non-null.

Beginning in C# 14, assignment is permissible with a null conditional access expression (`?.` and `?[]`) on reference types. For example, see the following method:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/NullCoalescingOperator.cs" id="NullForgivingAssignment":::

The preceding example shows assignment to a property and an indexed element on a reference type that might be null. An important behavior for this assignment is that the expression on the right-hand side of the `=` is evaluated only when the left-hand side is known to be non-null. For example, in the following code, the function `GenerateNextIndex` is called only when the `values` array isn't null. If the `values` array is null, `GenerateNextIndex` isn't called:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/NullCoalescingOperator.cs" id="NullForgivingAssignment":::

In other words, the preceding code is equivalent to the following code using an `if` statement for the null check:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/NullCoalescingOperator.cs" id="EquivalentIfStatement":::

In addition to assignment, any form of [compound assignment](./assignment-operator.md#compound-assignment), such as `+=` or `-=`, are allowed. However, increment (`++`) and decrement (`--`) aren't allowed.

This enhancement doesn't classify a null conditional expression as a variable. It can't be `ref` assigned, nor can it be assigned to a `ref` variable or passed to a method as a `ref` or `out` argument.

### Thread-safe delegate invocation

Use the `?.` operator to check if a delegate is non-null and invoke it in a thread-safe way (for example, when you [raise an event](../../../standard/events/how-to-raise-and-consume-events.md)), as the following code shows:

```csharp
PropertyChanged?.Invoke(…)
```

That code is equivalent to the following code:

```csharp
var handler = this.PropertyChanged;
if (handler != null)
{
    handler(…);
}
```

The preceding example is a thread-safe way to ensure that only a non-null `handler` is invoked. Because delegate instances are immutable, no thread can change the object referenced by the `handler` local variable. In particular, if the code executed by another thread unsubscribes from the `PropertyChanged` event and `PropertyChanged` becomes `null` before `handler` is invoked, the object referenced by `handler` remains unaffected.

## Invocation expression ()

Use parentheses, `()`, to call a [method](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/methods.md) or invoke a [delegate](../../programming-guide/delegates/index.md).

The following code demonstrates how to call a method, with or without arguments, and invoke a delegate:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Invocation" interactive="try-dotnet-method":::

You also use parentheses when you invoke a [constructor](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors.md) with the [`new`](new-operator.md) operator.

### Other usages of ()

You also use parentheses to adjust the order in which to evaluate operations in an expression. For more information, see [C# operators](index.md).

[Cast expressions](type-testing-and-cast.md#cast-expression), which perform explicit type conversions, also use parentheses.

## Index from end operator ^

Index and range operators can be used with a type that is *countable*. A *countable* type is a type that has an `int` property named either `Count` or `Length` with an accessible `get` accessor. [Collection expressions](./collection-expressions.md) also rely on *countable* types.

The `^` operator indicates the element position from the end of a sequence. For a sequence of length `length`, `^n` points to the element with offset `length - n` from the start of a sequence. For example, `^1` points to the last element of a sequence and `^length` points to the first element of a sequence.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="IndexFromEnd":::

As the preceding example shows, expression `^e` is of the <xref:System.Index?displayProperty=nameWithType> type. In expression `^e`, the result of `e` must be implicitly convertible to `int`.

You can also use the `^` operator with the [range operator](#range-operator-) to create a range of indices. For more information, see [Indices and ranges](../../tutorials/ranges-indexes.md).

Beginning with C# 13, the Index from the end operator can be used in an object initializer.

## Range operator `..`

The `..` operator specifies the start and end of a range of indices as its operands. The left-hand operand is an *inclusive* start of a range. The right-hand operand is an *exclusive* end of a range. Either of the operands can be an index from the start or from the end of a sequence, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="Ranges":::

As the preceding example shows, expression `a..b` is of the <xref:System.Range?displayProperty=nameWithType> type. In expression `a..b`, the results of `a` and `b` must be implicitly convertible to <xref:System.Int32> or <xref:System.Index>.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Implicit conversions from `int` to `Index` throw an <xref:System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException> when the value is negative.

You can omit any of the operands of the `..` operator to obtain an open-ended range:

- `a..` is equivalent to `a..^0`
- `..b` is equivalent to `0..b`
- `..` is equivalent to `0..^0`

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="RangesOptional":::

The following table shows various ways to express collection ranges:

| Range operator expression | Description                                                                      |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `..`                      | All values in the collection.                                                    |
| `..end`                   | Values from the start to the `end` exclusively.                                  |
| `start..`                 | Values from the `start` inclusively to the end.                                  |
| `start..end`              | Values from the `start` inclusively to the `end` exclusively.                    |
| `^start..`                | Values from the `start` inclusively to the end counting from the end.            |
| `..^end`                  | Values from the start to the `end` exclusively counting from the end.            |
| `start..^end`             | Values from `start` inclusively to `end` exclusively counting from the end.      |
| `^start..^end`            | Values from `start` inclusively to `end` exclusively both counting from the end. |

The following example demonstrates the effect of using all the ranges presented in the preceding table:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/MemberAccessOperators.cs" id="RangesAllPossible":::

For more information, see [Indices and ranges](../../tutorials/ranges-indexes.md).

The `..` token is also used for the [spread element](./collection-expressions.md#spread-element) in a collection expression.

## Operator overloadability

The `.`, `()`, `^`, and `..` operators can't be overloaded. The `[]` operator is also considered a non-overloadable operator. Use [indexers](../../programming-guide/indexers/index.md) to support indexing with user-defined types.

## C# language specification

For more information, see the following sections of the [C# language specification](~/_csharpstandard/standard/README.md):

- [Member access](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#1287-member-access)
- [Element access](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#12812-element-access)
- [Null-conditional member access](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#1288-null-conditional-member-access)
- [Invocation expressions](~/_csharpstandard/standard/expressions.md#12810-invocation-expressions)

For more information about indices and ranges, see the [feature proposal note](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/ranges.md).

## See also

- [Use index operator (style rule IDE0056)](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0056.md)
- [Use range operator (style rule IDE0057)](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0057.md)
- [Use conditional delegate call (style rule IDE1005)](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide1005.md)
- [C# operators and expressions](index.md)
- [?? (null-coalescing operator)](null-coalescing-operator.md)
- [:: operator](namespace-alias-qualifier.md)
