---
title: "CA1050: Declare types in namespaces (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1050: Declare types in namespaces"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
f1_keywords:
- CA1050
- DeclareTypesInNamespaces
helpviewer_keywords:
- DeclareTypesInNamespaces
- CA1050
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1050: Declare types in namespaces

| Property                            | Value                        |
|-------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1050                       |
| **Title**                           | Declare types in namespaces  |
| **Category**                        | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Breaking                     |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 9**    | As suggestion                |

## Cause

A public or protected type is defined outside the scope of a named namespace.

## Rule description

Types are declared in namespaces to prevent name collisions, and as a way to organize related types in an object hierarchy. Types that are outside any named namespace are in a global namespace that cannot be referenced in code.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, place the type in a namespace.

## When to suppress warnings

Although you never have to suppress a warning from this rule, it is safe to do this when the assembly will never be used together with other assemblies.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1050
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1050
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1050.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Example 1

The following example shows a library that has a type incorrectly declared outside a namespace, and a type that has the same name declared in a namespace.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1050.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1050-declare-types-in-namespaces_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

## Example 2

The following application uses the library that was defined previously. The type that's declared outside a namespace is created when the name `Test` is not qualified by a namespace. To access the `Test` type that's declared inside a namespace, the namespace name is required.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1050.cs" id="snippet2":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1050-declare-types-in-namespaces_1.vb" id="snippet2":::
