---
title: "CA1056: URI properties should not be strings (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1056: URI properties should not be strings"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- UriPropertiesShouldNotBeStrings
- CA1056
helpviewer_keywords:
- UriPropertiesShouldNotBeStrings
- CA1056
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1056: URI properties should not be strings

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1056|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A type declares a string property whose name contains "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url".

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

This rule splits the property name into tokens based on the Pascal casing convention and checks whether each token equals "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url". If there's a match, the rule assumes that the property represents a uniform resource identifier (URI). A string representation of a URI is prone to parsing and encoding errors, and can lead to security vulnerabilities. The <xref:System.Uri?displayProperty=fullName> class provides these services in a safe and secure manner.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the property to a <xref:System.Uri> type.

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the property doesn't represent a URI.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1056
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1056
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1056.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Design.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)
- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Example

The following example shows a type, `ErrorProne`, that violates this rule, and a type, `SaferWay`, that satisfies the rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1056.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1056-uri-properties-should-not-be-strings_1.vb":::

## Related rules

- [CA1054: URI parameters should not be strings](ca1054.md)
- [CA1055: URI return values should not be strings](ca1055.md)
- [CA2234: Pass System.Uri objects instead of strings](ca2234.md)
