---
title: "CA1036: Override methods on comparable types (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1036: Override methods on comparable types"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1036
- OverrideMethodsOnComparableTypes
helpviewer_keywords:
- OverrideMethodsOnComparableTypes
- CA1036
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1036: Override methods on comparable types

| Item                                     | Value            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| RuleId                                   | CA1036           |
| Category                                 | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| Fix is breaking or non-breaking | Non-breaking     |

## Cause

A type implements the <xref:System.IComparable?displayProperty=fullName> interface and does not override <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A?displayProperty=fullName> or does not overload the language-specific operator for equality, inequality, less-than, or greater-than. The rule does not report a violation if the type inherits only an implementation of the interface.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Types that define a custom sort order implement the <xref:System.IComparable> interface. The <xref:System.IComparable.CompareTo%2A> method returns an integer value that indicates the correct sort order for two instances of the type. This rule identifies types that set a sort order. Setting a sort order implies that the ordinary meaning of equality, inequality, less-than, and greater-than don't apply. When you provide an implementation of <xref:System.IComparable>, you must usually also override <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A> so that it returns values that are consistent with <xref:System.IComparable.CompareTo%2A>. If you override <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A> and are coding in a language that supports operator overloads, you should also provide operators that are consistent with <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A>.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, override <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A>. If your programming language supports operator overloading, supply the following operators:

- op_Equality
- op_Inequality
- op_LessThan
- op_GreaterThan

In C#, the tokens that are used to represent these operators are as follows:

```csharp
==
!=
<
>
```

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from rule CA1036 when the violation is caused by missing operators and your programming language does not support operator overloading, as is the case with Visual Basic. If you determine that implementing the operators does not make sense in your app context, it's also safe to suppress a warning from this rule when it fires on equality operators other than op_Equality. However, you should always override op_Equality and the == operator if you override <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Examples

The following code contains a type that correctly implements <xref:System.IComparable>. Code comments identify the methods that satisfy various rules that are related to <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A> and the <xref:System.IComparable> interface.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1036.cs" id="snippet1":::

The following application code tests the behavior of the <xref:System.IComparable> implementation that was shown earlier.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1036.cs" id="snippet2":::

## See also

- <xref:System.IComparable?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A?displayProperty=fullName>
- [Equality operators](../../../standard/design-guidelines/equality-operators.md)
