---
title: "CA1064: Exceptions should be public (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1064: Exceptions should be public"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1064
- ExceptionsShouldBePublic
helpviewer_keywords:
- ExceptionsShouldBePublic
- CA1064
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1064: Exceptions should be public

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1064|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A non-public exception derives directly from <xref:System.Exception>, <xref:System.SystemException>, or <xref:System.ApplicationException>.

## Rule description

An internal exception is only visible inside its own internal scope. After the exception falls outside the internal scope, only the base exception can be used to catch the exception. If the internal exception is inherited from <xref:System.Exception>, <xref:System.SystemException>, or <xref:System.ApplicationException>, the external code will not have sufficient information to know what to do with the exception.

But, if the code has a public exception that later is used as the base for an internal exception, it is reasonable to assume the code further out will be able to do something intelligent with the base exception. The public exception will have more information than what is provided by <xref:System.Exception>, <xref:System.SystemException>, or <xref:System.ApplicationException>.

## How to fix violations

Make the exception public, or derive the internal exception from a public exception that is not <xref:System.Exception>, <xref:System.SystemException>, or <xref:System.ApplicationException>.

## When to suppress warnings

Suppress a message from this rule if you are sure in all cases that the private exception will be caught within its own internal scope.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1064
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1064
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1064.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Design.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Example

This rule fires on the first example method, FirstCustomException because the exception class derives directly from Exception and is internal. The rule does not fire on the SecondCustomException class because although the class also derives directly from Exception, the class is declared public. The third class also does not fire the rule because it does not derive directly from <xref:System.Exception?displayProperty=fullName>, <xref:System.SystemException?displayProperty=fullName>, or <xref:System.ApplicationException?displayProperty=fullName>.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1064.cs" id="snippet1":::
