---
title: "CA1047: Do not declare protected members in sealed types (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1047: Do not declare protected members in sealed types"
ms.date: 06/11/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- DoNotDeclareProtectedMembersInSealedTypes
- CA1047
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1047
- DoNotDeclareProtectedMembersInSealedTypes
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1047: Do not declare protected members in sealed types

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1047|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A public type is `sealed` (`NotInheritable` in Visual basic) and declares a protected member or a protected nested type. This rule does not report violations for <xref:System.Object.Finalize%2A> methods, which must follow this pattern.

## Rule description

Types declare protected members so that inheriting types can access or override the member. By definition, you cannot inherit from a sealed type, which means that protected methods on sealed types cannot be called.

The C# compiler issues a warning for this error.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the access level of the member to private, or make the type inheritable.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. Leaving the type in its current state can cause maintenance issues and does not provide any benefits.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example shows a type that violates this rule.

```csharp
public sealed class SealedClass
{
    protected void ProtectedMethod(){}
}
```

```vb
Public NotInheritable Class BadSealedType
    Protected  Sub MyMethod
    End Sub
End Class
```
