---
title: "CA1021: Avoid out parameters (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1021: Avoid out parameters"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1021
- AvoidOutParameters
helpviewer_keywords:
- AvoidOutParameters
- CA1021
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1021: Avoid out parameters

| Item                                     | Value            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| RuleId                                   | CA1021           |
| Category                                 | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| Fix is breaking or non-breaking | Breaking         |

## Cause

A public or protected method in a public type has an `out` parameter.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Passing types by reference (using `out` or `ref`) requires experience with pointers, understanding how value types and reference types differ, and handling methods with multiple return values. Also, the difference between `out` and `ref` parameters is not widely understood.

When a reference type is passed "by reference," the method intends to use the parameter to return a different instance of the object. Passing a reference type by reference is also known as using a double pointer, pointer to a pointer, or double indirection. By using the default calling convention, which is pass "by value," a parameter that takes a reference type already receives a pointer to the object. The pointer, not the object to which it points, is passed by value. Pass by value means that the method cannot change the pointer to have it point to a new instance of the reference type. However, it can change the contents of the object to which it points. For most applications this is sufficient and yields the desired behavior.

If a method must return a different instance, use the return value of the method to accomplish this. See the <xref:System.String?displayProperty=fullName> class for a variety of methods that operate on strings and return a new instance of a string. When this model is used, the caller must decide whether the original object is preserved.

Although return values are commonplace and heavily used, the correct application of `out` and `ref` parameters requires intermediate design and coding skills. Library architects who design for a general audience should not expect users to become proficient in working with `out` or `ref` parameters.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule that is caused by a value type, have the method return the object as its return value. If the method must return multiple values, redesign it to return a single instance of an object that holds the values.

To fix a violation of this rule that is caused by a reference type, make sure that the desired behavior is to return a new instance of the reference. If it is, the method should use its return value to do this.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule. However, this design could cause usability issues.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example 1

The following library shows two implementations of a class that generates responses to user feedback. The first implementation (`BadRefAndOut`) forces the library user to manage three return values. The second implementation (`RedesignedRefAndOut`) simplifies the user experience by returning an instance of a container class (`ReplyData`) that manages the data as a single unit.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1021.cs" id="snippet1":::

## Example 2

The following application illustrates the experience of the user. The call to the redesigned library (`UseTheSimplifiedClass` method) is more straightforward, and the information returned by the method is easily managed. The output from the two methods is identical.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1021.cs" id="snippet2":::

## Example 3

The following example library illustrates how `ref` parameters for reference types are used and shows a better way to implement this functionality.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1021.cs" id="snippet3":::

## Example 4

The following application calls each method in the library to demonstrate the behavior.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1021.cs" id="snippet4":::

This example produces the following output:

```txt
Changing pointer - passed by value:
12345
12345
Changing pointer - passed by reference:
12345
12345 ABCDE
Passing by return value:
12345 ABCDE
```

## Try pattern methods

Methods that implement the **Try\<Something>** pattern, such as <xref:System.Int32.TryParse%2A?displayProperty=fullName>, do not raise this violation. The following example shows a structure (value type) that implements the <xref:System.Int32.TryParse%2A?displayProperty=fullName> method.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1021.cs" id="snippet5":::

## Related rules

[CA1045: Do not pass types by reference](ca1045.md)
