---
title: "CA1068: CancellationToken parameters must come last (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1068: CancellationToken parameters must come last"
ms.date: 09/16/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA1068"
  - "CancellationTokenParametersMustComeLast"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA1068"
  - "CancellationTokenParametersMustComeLast"
author: mavasani
ms.author: mavasani
---
# CA1068: CancellationToken parameters must come last

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1068|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A method has a <xref:System.Threading.CancellationToken> parameter that is not the last parameter.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Methods that perform long running operations or asynchronous operations and are cancelable normally take a cancellation token parameter. Each cancellation token has a <xref:System.Threading.CancellationTokenSource> that creates the token and uses it for cancelable computations. It is common practice to have a long chain of method calls that pass around the cancellation token from the callers to the callees. Hence, a large number of methods that take part in a cancelable computation end up having a cancellation token parameter. However, the cancellation token itself is not usually relevant to the core functionality of a majority of these methods. It's considered a good API design practice to have such parameters be the last parameter in the list.

## Special cases

Rule CA1068 does not fire in the following special cases:

- Method has one or more [optional](../../../csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/named-and-optional-arguments.md#optional-arguments) parameters ([Optional](../../../visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/procedures/optional-parameters.md) in Visual Basic) following a non-optional cancellation token parameter. The compiler requires that all optional parameters are defined after all the non-optional parameters.
- Method has one or more [ref](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/ref.md) or [out](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/out-parameter-modifier.md) parameters ([ByRef](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/modifiers/byref.md) in Visual Basic) following a cancellation token parameter. It is common practice to have `ref` or `out` parameters be at the end of the list, because they usually indicate output values for the method.

## How to fix violations

Change the method signature to move the cancellation token parameter to the end of the list. For example, the following two code snippets show a violation of the rule and how to fix it:

```csharp
// Violates CA1068
public void LongRunningOperation(CancellationToken token, string usefulParameter)
{
    ...
}
```

```csharp
// Does not violate CA1068
public void LongRunningOperation(string usefulParameter, CancellationToken token)
{
    ...
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

If the method is an externally visible public API that is already part of a shipped library, then it is safe to suppress a warning from this rule to avoid a breaking change for the library consumers.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)
- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Related rules

- [CA1021: Avoid out parameters](ca1021.md)

## See also

- [Recommended patterns for CancellationToken](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/premier-developer/recommended-patterns-for-cancellationtoken/)
