---
title: "CA1052: Static holder types should be Static or NotInheritable (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1052: Static holder types should be Static or NotInheritable"
ms.date: 07/25/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- StaticHolderTypesShouldBeSealed
- CA1052
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1052
- StaticHolderTypesShouldBeSealed
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1052: Static holder types should be Static or NotInheritable

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1052|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A non-abstract type contains only static members (other than a possible default constructor) and is not declared with the [static](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/static.md) or [Shared](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/modifiers/shared.md) modifier.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Rule CA1052 assumes that a type that contains only static members is not designed to be inherited, because the type does not provide any functionality that can be overridden in a derived type. A type that is not meant to be inherited should be marked with the `static` modifier in C# to prohibit its use as a base type. Additionally, its default constructor should be removed. In Visual Basic, the class should be converted to a [module](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/module-statement.md).

This rule does not fire for abstract classes or classes that have a base class. However, the rule does fire for classes that support an empty interface.

> [!NOTE]
> In the latest analyzer implementation of this rule, it also encompasses the functionality of [rule CA1053](ca1053.md).

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, mark the type as `static` and remove the default constructor (C#), or convert it to a module (Visual Basic).

## When to suppress warnings

You can suppress violations in the following cases:

- The type is designed to be inherited. The absence of the `static` modifier suggests that the type is useful as a base type.
- The type is used as a type argument. Static types can't be used as type arguments.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example of a violation

The following example shows a type that violates the rule:

```csharp
public class StaticMembers
{
    public static int SomeProperty { get; set; }
    public static void SomeMethod() { }
}
```

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1052-static-holder-types-should-be-sealed_1.vb":::

## Fix with the static modifier

The following example shows how to fix a violation of this rule by marking the type with the `static` modifier in C#:

```csharp
public static class StaticMembers
{
    public static int SomeProperty { get; set; }
    public static void SomeMethod() { }
}
```
