---
title: "CA1014: Mark assemblies with CLSCompliantAttribute (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1014: Mark assemblies with CLSCompliantAttribute"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1014
- MarkAssembliesWithClsCompliant
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1014
- MarkAssembliesWithClsCompliant
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1014: Mark assemblies with CLSCompliantAttribute

| Item                                     | Value            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| RuleId                                   | CA1014           |
| Category                                 | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| Fix is breaking or non-breaking | Non-breaking     |

## Cause

An assembly does not have the <xref:System.CLSCompliantAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> attribute applied to it.

## Rule description

The Common Language Specification (CLS) defines naming restrictions, data types, and rules to which assemblies must conform if they will be used across programming languages. Good design dictates that all assemblies explicitly indicate CLS compliance with <xref:System.CLSCompliantAttribute>. If the attribute is not present on an assembly, the assembly is not compliant.

It is possible for a CLS-compliant assembly to contain types or type members that are not compliant.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, add the attribute to the assembly. Instead of marking the whole assembly as noncompliant, you should determine which type or type members are not compliant and mark these elements as such. If possible, you should provide a CLS-compliant alternative for noncompliant members so that the widest possible audience can access all the functionality of your assembly.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. If you do not want the assembly to be compliant, apply the attribute and set its value to `false`.

If you must suppress this warning, add `dotnet_diagnostic.CA1014.severity = none` to your *.globalconfig* file. Or, if your project has no code files, add `<NoWarn>CA1041</NoWarn>` to your project file.

## Example

The following example shows an assembly that has the <xref:System.CLSCompliantAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> attribute applied that declares it CLS-compliant.

```csharp
[assembly:CLSCompliant(true)]
namespace DesignLibrary {}
```

```vb
<assembly:CLSCompliant(true)>
Namespace DesignLibrary
End Namespace
```

## See also

- <xref:System.CLSCompliantAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>
- [Language Independence and Language-Independent Components](../../../standard/language-independence.md)
