---
title: "CA1054: URI parameters should not be strings (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1054: URI parameters should not be strings"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1054
- UriParametersShouldNotBeStrings
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1054
- UriParametersShouldNotBeStrings
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1054: URI parameters should not be strings

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1054|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A type declares a method with a string parameter whose name contains "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url" and the type does not declare a corresponding overload that takes a <xref:System.Uri?displayProperty=fullName> parameter.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

This rule splits the parameter name into tokens based on the camel casing convention and checks whether each token equals "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url". If there is a match, the rule assumes that the parameter represents a uniform resource identifier (URI). A string representation of a URI is prone to parsing and encoding errors, and can lead to security vulnerabilities. If a method takes a string representation of a URI, a corresponding overload should be provided that takes an instance of the <xref:System.Uri> class, which provides these services in a safe and secure manner.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the parameter to a <xref:System.Uri> type; this is a breaking change. Alternately, provide an overload of the method that takes a <xref:System.Uri> parameter; this is a non-breaking change.

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the parameter does not represent a URI.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example shows a type, `ErrorProne`, that violates this rule, and a type, `SaferWay`, that satisfies the rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1054.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1054-uri-parameters-should-not-be-strings_1.vb":::

## Related rules

- [CA1056: URI properties should not be strings](ca1056.md)
- [CA1055: URI return values should not be strings](ca1055.md)
- [CA2234: Pass System.Uri objects instead of strings](ca2234.md)
