---
title: "CA1032: Implement standard exception constructors (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1032: Implement standard exception constructors"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1032
- ImplementStandardExceptionConstructors
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1032
- ImplementStandardExceptionConstructors
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1032: Implement standard exception constructors

| Item                             | Value                        |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| RuleId                           | CA1032                       |
| Category                         | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| Fix is breaking or non-breaking  | Non-breaking                 |
| Enabled by default in .NET 7     | No                           |

## Cause

A type extends <xref:System.Exception?displayProperty=fullName> but doesn't declare all the required constructors.

## Rule description

Exception types must implement the following three public constructors:

- public NewException()

- public NewException(string)

- public NewException(string, Exception)

Failure to provide the full set of constructors can make it difficult to correctly handle exceptions. For example, the constructor that has the signature `NewException(string, Exception)` is used to create exceptions that are caused by other exceptions. Without this constructor, you can't create and throw an instance of your custom exception that contains an inner (nested) exception, which is what managed code should do in such a situation.

For more information, see [CA2229: Implement serialization constructors](ca2229.md).

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, add the missing constructors to the exception, and make sure that they have the correct accessibility.

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule when the violation is caused by using a different access level for the public constructors.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1032
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1032
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1032.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Example

The following example contains an exception type that violates this rule and an exception type that is correctly implemented.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1032.cs" id="snippet1":::

## See also

[CA2229: Implement serialization constructors](ca2229.md)
