---
title: "CA1012: Abstract types should not have public constructors (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1012: Abstract types should not have public constructors"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- AbstractTypesShouldNotHaveConstructors
- CA1012
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1012
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1012: Abstract types should not have public constructors

| Item                                     | Value            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| RuleId                                   | CA1012           |
| Category                                 | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| Fix is breaking or non-breaking | Non-breaking     |

## Cause

A type is abstract and has a public constructor.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Constructors on abstract types can be called only by derived types. Because public constructors create instances of a type and you cannot create instances of an abstract type, an abstract type that has a public constructor is incorrectly designed.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, either make the constructor protected or don't declare the type as abstract.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. The abstract type has a public constructor.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following code snippet contains an abstract type that violates this rule.

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1012-abstract-types-should-not-have-constructors_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

```csharp
// Violates this rule
public abstract class Book
{
    public Book()
    {
    }
}
```

The following code snippet fixes the previous violation by changing the accessibility of the constructor from `public` to `protected`.

```csharp
// Does not violate this rule
public abstract class Book
{
    protected Book()
    {
    }
}
```

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1012-abstract-types-should-not-have-constructors_1.vb" id="snippet2":::
