---
title: "CA1043: Use integral or string argument for indexers (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1043: Use integral or string argument for indexers"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1043
- UseIntegralOrStringArgumentForIndexers
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1043
- UseIntegralOrStringArgumentForIndexers
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1043: Use integral or string argument for indexers

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1043|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A type contains an indexer that uses an index type other than <xref:System.Int32?displayProperty=fullName>, <xref:System.Int64?displayProperty=fullName>, <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=fullName>, or <xref:System.String?displayProperty=fullName>.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Indexers, that is, indexed properties, should use integer or string types for the index. These types are typically used for indexing data structures and increase the usability of the library. Use of the <xref:System.Object> type should be restricted to those cases where the specific integer or string type cannot be specified at design time. If the design requires other types for the index, reconsider whether the type represents a logical data store. If it does not represent a logical data store, use a method.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the index to an integer or string type or use a method instead of the indexer.

## When to suppress warnings

Suppress a warning from this rule only after carefully considering the need for the nonstandard indexer.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example shows an indexer that uses an <xref:System.Int32> index.

```csharp
string[] Month = new string[] { "Jan", "Feb", "..." };

public string this[int index]
{
    get => Month[index];
}
```

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1043-use-integral-or-string-argument-for-indexers_1.vb" id="Snippet1":::

## Related rules

- [CA1024: Use properties where appropriate](ca1024.md)
