---
title: "CA1051: Do not declare visible instance fields (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1051: Do not declare visible instance fields"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1051
- DoNotDeclareVisibleInstanceFields
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1051
- DoNotDeclareVisibleInstanceFields
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1051: Do not declare visible instance fields

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1051|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A type has a non-private instance field.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#include-or-exclude-apis).

## Rule description

The primary use of a field should be as an implementation detail. Fields should be `private` or `internal` and should be exposed by using properties. It's as easy to access a property as it is to access a field, and the code in the accessors of a property can change as the features of the type expand without introducing breaking changes.

Properties that just return the value of a private or internal field are optimized to perform on par with accessing a field; the performance gain from using externally visible fields instead of properties is minimal. *Externally visible* refers to `public`, `protected`, and `protected internal` (`Public`, `Protected`, and `Protected Friend` in Visual Basic) accessibility levels.

Additionally, public fields cannot be protected by [Link demands](/previous-versions/dotnet/framework/code-access-security/link-demands). (Link demands don't apply to .NET Core apps.)

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, make the field `private` or `internal` and expose it by using an externally visible property.

## When to suppress warnings

Only suppress this warning if you're certain that consumers need direct access to the field. For most applications, exposed fields do not provide performance or maintainability benefits over properties.

Consumers may need field access in the following situations:

- In ASP.NET Web Forms content controls.
- When the target platform makes use of `ref` to modify fields, such as model-view-viewmodel (MVVM) frameworks for WPF and UWP.

## Include or exclude APIs

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)
- [Exclude structs](#exclude-structs)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

### Exclude structs

You can exclude `struct` (`Structure` in Visual Basic) fields from being analyzed.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.ca1051.exclude_structs = true
```

## Example

The following example shows a type (`BadPublicInstanceFields`) that violates this rule. `GoodPublicInstanceFields` shows the corrected code.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1051.cs" id="snippet1":::

## See also

- [Link Demands](/previous-versions/dotnet/framework/code-access-security/link-demands)
