---
title: "CA1024: Use properties where appropriate (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1024: Use properties where appropriate"
ms.date: 12/21/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- UsePropertiesWhereAppropriate
- CA1024
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1024
- UsePropertiesWhereAppropriate
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1024: Use properties where appropriate

| Item                                     | Value            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| RuleId                                   | CA1024           |
| Category                                 | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| Fix is breaking or non-breaking | Breaking         |

## Cause

A method has a name that starts with `Get`, takes no parameters, and returns a value that's not an array.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible methods, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

In most cases, properties represent data and methods perform actions. Properties are accessed like fields, which makes them easier to use. A method is a good candidate to become a property if one of these conditions is present:

- The method takes no arguments and returns the state information of an object.
- The method accepts a single argument to set some part of the state of an object.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the method to a property.

## When to suppress warnings

Suppress a warning from this rule if the method meets one of the following criteria. In these situations, a method is preferable to a property.

- The method can't behave as a field.
- The method performs a time-consuming operation. The method is perceivably slower than the time that is required to set or get the value of a field.
- The method performs a conversion. Accessing a field does not return a converted version of the data that it stores.
- The `Get` method has an observable side effect. Retrieving the value of a field does not produce any side effects.
- The order of execution is important. Setting the value of a field does not rely on the occurrence of other operations.
- Calling the method two times in succession creates different results.
- The method is `static` but returns an object that can be changed by the caller. Retrieving the value of a field does not allow the caller to change the data that's stored by the field.
- The method returns an array.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example contains several methods that should be converted to properties and several that should not because they don't behave like fields.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1024.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1024.vb" id="snippet1":::

## Control property expansion in the debugger

One reason programmers avoid using a property is because they do not want the debugger to autoexpand it. For example, the property might involve allocating a large object or calling a P/Invoke, but it might not actually have any observable side effects.

You can prevent the debugger from auto-expanding properties by applying <xref:System.Diagnostics.DebuggerBrowsableAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>. The following example shows this attribute being applied to an instance property.

```vb
Imports System.Diagnostics

Namespace Microsoft.Samples
    Public Class TestClass
        ' [...]

        <DebuggerBrowsable(DebuggerBrowsableState.Never)> _
        Public ReadOnly Property LargeObject() As LargeObject
            Get
                ' Allocate large object
                ' [...]
            End Get
        End Property
    End Class
End Namespace
```

```csharp
using System.Diagnostics;

namespace Microsoft.Samples
{
    class TestClass
    {
        // [...]

        [DebuggerBrowsable(DebuggerBrowsableState.Never)]
        public LargeObject LargeObject
        {
            get
            {
                // Allocate large object
                // [...]
            }
        }
    }
}
```
