---
title: "CA1001: Types that own disposable fields should be disposable (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1001: Types that own disposable fields should be disposable"
ms.date: 12/18/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1001
- TypesThatOwnDisposableFieldsShouldBeDisposable
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1001
- TypesThatOwnDisposableFieldsShouldBeDisposable
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1001: Types that own disposable fields should be disposable

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** | CA1001 |
| **Category** | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking - If the type is not visible outside the assembly.<br/><br/>Breaking - If the type is visible outside the assembly. |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No |

## Cause

A class declares and implements an instance field that is an <xref:System.IDisposable?displayProperty=fullName> type, and the class does not implement <xref:System.IDisposable>.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

A class that declares an <xref:System.IDisposable> field indirectly owns an unmanaged resource. The class should implement the <xref:System.IDisposable> interface to dispose of the unmanaged resource that it owns once the resource is no longer in use. If the class does not *directly* own any unmanaged resources, it should not implement a finalizer.

This rule respects types implementing <xref:System.IAsyncDisposable?displayProperty=fullName> as disposable types.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, implement the <xref:System.IDisposable> interface. In the <xref:System.IDisposable.Dispose%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method, call the <xref:System.IDisposable.Dispose%2A> method of the field's type.

## When to suppress warnings

In general, do not suppress a warning from this rule. It's okay to suppress the warning when the dispose ownership of the field is not held by the containing type.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1001
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1001
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1001.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

These options can be configured for just this rule, for all rules it applies to, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)) that it applies to. For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](../includes/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](../includes/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Example

The following example shows a class that violates the rule and a class that satisfies the rule by implementing <xref:System.IDisposable>. The class does not implement a finalizer because the class does not directly own any unmanaged resources.

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1001-types-that-own-disposable-fields-should-be-disposable_1.vb":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1001.cs" id="snippet1":::

## Related rules

- [CA2213: Disposable fields should be disposed](ca2213.md)
- [CA2216: Disposable types should declare finalizer](ca2216.md)
- [CA2215: Dispose methods should call base class dispose](ca2215.md)

## See also

- [Implement a Dispose method](../../../standard/garbage-collection/implementing-dispose.md)
