---
title: "CA1055: URI return values should not be strings (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1055: URI return values should not be strings"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1055
- UriReturnValuesShouldNotBeStrings
helpviewer_keywords:
- UriReturnValuesShouldNotBeStrings
- CA1055
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1055: URI return values should not be strings

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1055|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

The name of a method contains "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url", and the method returns a string.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible methods, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

This rule splits the method name into tokens based on the Pascal casing convention and checks whether each token equals "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url". If there is a match, the rule assumes that the method returns a uniform resource identifier (URI). A string representation of a URI is prone to parsing and encoding errors, and can lead to security vulnerabilities. The <xref:System.Uri?displayProperty=fullName> class provides these services in a safe and secure manner.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the return type to a <xref:System.Uri>.

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the return value does not represent a URI.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example shows a type, `ErrorProne`, that violates this rule, and a type, `SaferWay`, that satisfies the rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1055.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1055-uri-return-values-should-not-be-strings_1.vb":::

## Related rules

- [CA1056: URI properties should not be strings](ca1056.md)
- [CA1054: URI parameters should not be strings](ca1054.md)
- [CA2234: Pass System.Uri objects instead of strings](ca2234.md)
