---
title: "CA1046: Do not overload operator equals on reference types (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1046: Do not overload operator equals on reference types"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "DoNotOverloadOperatorEqualsOnReferenceTypes"
  - "CA1046"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA1046"
  - "DoNotOverloadOperatorEqualsOnReferenceTypes"
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1046: Do not overload operator equals on reference types

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1046|
| **Category** |[Design](design-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A public or nested public reference type overloads the equality operator.

## Rule description

For reference types, the default implementation of the equality operator is almost always correct. By default, two references are equal only if they point to the same object.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, remove the implementation of the equality operator.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule when the reference type behaves like a built-in value type. If it is meaningful to do addition or subtraction on instances of the type, it is probably correct to implement the equality operator and suppress the violation.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category (Design). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example 1

The following example demonstrates the default behavior when comparing two references.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1046.cs" id="snippet1":::

## Example 2

The following application compares some references.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1046.cs" id="snippet2":::

This example produces the following output:

```txt
a = new (2,2) and b = new (2,2) are equal? No
c and a are equal? Yes
b and a are == ? No
c and a are == ? Yes
```

## See also

- <xref:System.Object.Equals%2A?displayProperty=fullName>
- [Equality Operators](../../../standard/design-guidelines/equality-operators.md)
