---
title: "CA1028: Enum storage should be Int32 (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1028: Enum storage should be Int32"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1028
- EnumStorageShouldBeInt32
helpviewer_keywords:
- EnumStorageShouldBeInt32
- CA1028
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1028: Enum storage should be Int32

| Item                                     | Value            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| RuleId                                   | CA1028           |
| Category                                 | [Design](design-warnings.md) |
| Fix is breaking or non-breaking | Breaking         |

## Cause

The underlying type of an enumeration is not <xref:System.Int32?displayProperty=fullName>.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible enumerations, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

An enumeration is a value type that defines a set of related named constants. By default, the <xref:System.Int32?displayProperty=fullName> data type is used to store the constant value. Even though you can change this underlying type, it is not necessary or recommended for most scenarios. No significant performance gain is achieved by using a data type that is smaller than <xref:System.Int32>. If you cannot use the default data type, you should use one of the Common Language System (CLS)-compliant integral types, <xref:System.Byte>, <xref:System.Int16>, <xref:System.Int32>, or <xref:System.Int64> to make sure that all values of the enumeration can be represented in CLS-compliant programming languages.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, unless size or compatibility issues exist, use <xref:System.Int32>. For situations where <xref:System.Int32> is not large enough to hold the values, use <xref:System.Int64>. If backward compatibility requires a smaller data type, use <xref:System.Byte> or <xref:System.Int16>.

## When to suppress warnings

Suppress a warning from this rule only if backward compatibility issues require it. In applications, failure to comply with this rule usually does not cause problems. In libraries, where language interoperability is required, failure to comply with this rule might adversely affect your users.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Design](design-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example shows two enumerations that don't use the recommended underlying data type.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1028.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1028-enum-storage-should-be-int32_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

The following example fixes the previous violation by changing the underlying data type to <xref:System.Int32>.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1028.cs" id="snippet2":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1028-enum-storage-should-be-int32_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

## Related rules

- [CA1008: Enums should have zero value](ca1008.md)
- [CA1027: Mark enums with FlagsAttribute](ca1027.md)
- [CA2217: Do not mark enums with FlagsAttribute](ca2217.md)
- [CA1700: Do not name enum values 'Reserved'](ca1700.md)
- [CA1712: Do not prefix enum values with type name](ca1712.md)

## See also

- <xref:System.Byte?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Int16?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Int32?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Int64?displayProperty=fullName>
