---
title: "CA1307: Specify StringComparison for clarity (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1307: Specify StringComparison for clarity"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1307
- SpecifyStringComparison
- SpecifyStringComparisonForClarity
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1307
- SpecifyStringComparison
- SpecifyStringComparisonForClarity
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1307: Specify StringComparison for clarity

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1307|
| **Category** |[Globalization](globalization-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A string comparison operation uses a method overload that does not set a <xref:System.StringComparison> parameter.

## Rule description

Many string compare operations provide an overload that accepts a <xref:System.StringComparison> enumeration value as a parameter.

Whenever an overload exists that takes a <xref:System.StringComparison> parameter, it should be used instead of an overload that does not take this parameter. By explicitly setting this parameter, your code is often made clearer and easier to maintain. For more information, see [Specifying string comparisons explicitly](../../../standard/base-types/best-practices-strings.md#specifying-string-comparisons-explicitly).

> [!NOTE]
> This rule does not consider the default <xref:System.StringComparison> value used by the comparison method. Hence, it can be potentially noisy for methods that use the `Ordinal` string comparison by default and the user intended to use this default compare mode.
> If you only want to see violations only for known string methods that use culture-specific string comparison by default, please use [CA1310: Specify StringComparison for correctness](ca1310.md) instead.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change string comparison methods to overloads that accept the <xref:System.StringComparison> enumeration as a parameter. For example, change `str1.IndexOf(ch1)` to `str1.IndexOf(ch1, StringComparison.Ordinal)`.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule when clarity of intent is not required. For example, test code or non-localizable code may not require it.

## See also

- [Best Practices for Using Strings in .NET](../../../standard/base-types/best-practices-strings.md)
- [Globalization rules](globalization-warnings.md)
- [CA1310: Specify StringComparison for correctness](ca1310.md)
- [CA1309: Use ordinal StringComparison](ca1309.md)
