---
title: "CA1303: Do not pass literals as localized parameters (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1303: Do not pass literals as localized parameters"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- Do not pass literals as localized parameters
- DoNotPassLiteralsAsLocalizedParameters
- CA1303
helpviewer_keywords:
- DoNotPassLiteralsAsLocalizedParameters
- CA1303
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1303: Do not pass literals as localized parameters

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1303|
| **Category** |Microsoft.Globalization|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A method passes a string literal as a parameter to a .NET constructor or method and that string should be localizable.

This warning is raised when a literal string is passed as a value to a parameter or property and one or more of the following situations is true:

- The <xref:System.ComponentModel.LocalizableAttribute> attribute of the parameter or property is set to `true`.

- The name of the string parameter that is passed to a `Console.Write` or `Console.WriteLine` method is either `value` or `format`.

- The rule is configured to [use the naming heuristic](#use-naming-heuristic), and a parameter or property name contains `Text`, `Message`, or `Caption`.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#excluded-type-names-with-derived-types).

## Rule description

String literals that are embedded in source code are difficult to localize.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, replace the string literal with a string retrieved through an instance of the <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> class.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the code library will not be localized or if the string is not exposed to the end user or a developer using the code library.

Users can eliminate noise against methods that should not be passed localized strings by either renaming the parameter or property, or by marking these items as conditional.

## Configurability

This rule has the following configurable options.

### Excluded type names with derived types

You can configure which types, including its derived types, to exclude from analysis. For example, to specify that the rule should not run on any methods within types named `MyType` and its derived types, add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project:

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1303.excluded_type_names_with_derived_types = MyType
```

Allowed symbol name formats in the option value (separated by `|`):

- Type name only (includes all types with the name, regardless of the containing type or namespace)
- Fully qualified names in the symbol's [documentation ID format](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/blob/master/spec/documentation-comments.md#id-string-format), with an optional `T:` prefix.

Examples:

| Option Value | Summary |
| --- | --- |
|`dotnet_code_quality.CA1303.excluded_type_names_with_derived_types = MyType` | Matches all types named 'MyType' and all of its derived types in the compilation
|`dotnet_code_quality.CA1303.excluded_type_names_with_derived_types = MyType1|MyType2` | Matches all types named either 'MyType1' or 'MyType2' and all of their derived types in the compilation
|`dotnet_code_quality.CA1303.excluded_type_names_with_derived_types = M:NS.MyType` | Matches specific type 'MyType' with given fully qualified name and all of its derived types
|`dotnet_code_quality.CA1303.excluded_type_names_with_derived_types = M:NS1.MyType1|M:NS2.MyType2` | Matches specific types 'MyType1' and 'MyType2' with respective fully qualified names and all of their derived types

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category (Globalization). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

### Use naming heuristic

You can configure whether parameters or property names containing `Text`, `Message`, or `Caption` will trigger this rule.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1303.use_naming_heuristic = true
```

## Example

The following example shows a method that writes to the console when either of its two arguments are out of range. For the `hour` argument check, a literal string is passed to `Console.WriteLine`, which violates this rule. For the `minute` argument check, a string that's retrieved through a <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> is passed to `Console.WriteLine`, which satisfies the rule.

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1303-do-not-pass-literals-as-localized-parameters_1.vb":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1303.cs" id="snippet1":::

## See also

- [Resources in desktop apps](../../../framework/resources/index.md)
- [Community request for change of behavior](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers/issues/2933)
