---
title: "CA1310: Specify StringComparison for correctness (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1310: Specify StringComparison for correctness"
ms.date: 08/26/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1310
- SpecifyStringComparison
- SpecifyStringComparisonForCorrectness
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1310
- SpecifyStringComparison
- SpecifyStringComparisonForCorrectness
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1310: Specify StringComparison for correctness

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1310|
| **Category** |[Globalization](globalization-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A string comparison operation uses a method overload that does not set a <xref:System.StringComparison> parameter and uses culture-specific string comparison by default. Hence, its behavior will vary based on the current user's locale settings.

## Rule description

A string comparison method that uses culture-specific string comparison by default can have potentially unintentional runtime behavior that does not match user intent. It is recommended that you use the overload with the <xref:System.StringComparison> parameter for correctness and clarity of intent.

This rule flags string comparison methods that use the culture-specific <xref:System.StringComparison> value by default. For more information, see [String comparisons that use the current culture](../../../standard/base-types/best-practices-strings.md#string-comparisons-that-use-the-current-culture).

> [!NOTE]
> If you want to see violations for all string comparison methods, regardless of the default string comparison used by the method, please use [CA1307: Specify StringComparison for clarity](ca1307.md) instead.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change string comparison methods to overloads that accept the <xref:System.StringComparison> enumeration as a parameter. For example, change `String.Compare(str1, str2)` to `String.Compare(str1, str2, StringComparison.Ordinal)`.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule when the library or application is not intended to be localized.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1310
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1310
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1310.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Globalization.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## See also

- [Best Practices for Using Strings in .NET](../../../standard/base-types/best-practices-strings.md)
- [Globalization rules](globalization-warnings.md)
- [CA1307: Specify StringComparison for clarity](ca1307.md)
- [CA1309: Use ordinal StringComparison](ca1309.md)
