docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1505.md, before:

---
title: "CA1505: Avoid unmaintainable code (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1505: Avoid unmaintainable code"
ms.date: 11/09/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- AvoidUnmaintainableCode
- CA1505
helpviewer_keywords:
- AvoidUnmaintainableCode
- CA1505
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1505: Avoid unmaintainable code

|                                     | Value                                          |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1505                                         |
| **Category**                        | [Maintainability](maintainability-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                                   |

## Cause

A type or method has a low maintainability index value.

## Rule description

The maintainability index is calculated by using the following metrics: lines of code, program volume, and cyclomatic complexity. Program volume is a measure of the difficulty of understanding of a type or method that's based on the number of operators and operands in the code. Cyclomatic complexity is a measure of the structural complexity of the type or method. You can learn more about code metrics at [Measure complexity and maintainability of managed code](/visualstudio/code-quality/code-metrics-values).

A low maintainability index indicates that a type or method is probably difficult to maintain and would be a good candidate to redesign.

## How to fix violations

To fix this violation, redesign the type or method and try to split it into smaller and more focused types or methods.

## When to suppress warnings

You can suppress this warning when the type or method cannot be split or is considered maintainable despite its large size.

> [!NOTE]
> You might see false positive warnings from this rule if all of the following apply:
>
> - You're using Visual Studio 2022 version 17.5 or later with an older version of the .NET SDK, that is, .NET 6 or earlier.
> - You're using the analyzers from the .NET 6 SDK or an older version of the analyzer packages, such as Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.FxCopAnalyzers.
>
> The false positives are due to a [breaking change in the C# compiler](/dotnet/csharp/whats-new/breaking-changes/compiler%20breaking%20changes%20-%20dotnet%207#inoneoperation-nodes-for-attributes-are-now-iattributeoperation-nodes). Consider using a newer analyzer that contains the fix for the false positive warnings. Upgrade to Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.NetAnalyzers version 7.0.0-preview1.22464.1 or newer or use the analyzers from the .NET 7 SDK.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1505
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1505
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1505.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Maintainability.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## See also

- [Maintainability rules](maintainability-warnings.md)
- [Measure complexity and maintainability of managed code](/visualstudio/code-quality/code-metrics-values)

Commit message:

add config section to code metrics rules

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1505.md, after:

---
title: "CA1505: Avoid unmaintainable code (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1505: Avoid unmaintainable code"
ms.date: 11/09/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- AvoidUnmaintainableCode
- CA1505
helpviewer_keywords:
- AvoidUnmaintainableCode
- CA1505
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1505: Avoid unmaintainable code

|                                     | Value                                          |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1505                                         |
| **Category**                        | [Maintainability](maintainability-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                                   |

## Cause

A type or method has a low maintainability index value.

## Rule description

The maintainability index is calculated by using the following metrics: lines of code, program volume, and cyclomatic complexity. Program volume is a measure of the difficulty of understanding of a type or method that's based on the number of operators and operands in the code. Cyclomatic complexity is a measure of the structural complexity of the type or method. You can learn more about code metrics at [Measure complexity and maintainability of managed code](/visualstudio/code-quality/code-metrics-values).

A low maintainability index indicates that a type or method is probably difficult to maintain and would be a good candidate to redesign.

## How to fix violations

To fix this violation, redesign the type or method and try to split it into smaller and more focused types or methods.

## When to suppress warnings

You can suppress this warning when the type or method cannot be split or is considered maintainable despite its large size.

> [!NOTE]
> You might see false positive warnings from this rule if all of the following apply:
>
> - You're using Visual Studio 2022 version 17.5 or later with an older version of the .NET SDK, that is, .NET 6 or earlier.
> - You're using the analyzers from the .NET 6 SDK or an older version of the analyzer packages, such as Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.FxCopAnalyzers.
>
> The false positives are due to a [breaking change in the C# compiler](/dotnet/csharp/whats-new/breaking-changes/compiler%20breaking%20changes%20-%20dotnet%207#inoneoperation-nodes-for-attributes-are-now-iattributeoperation-nodes). Consider using a newer analyzer that contains the fix for the false positive warnings. Upgrade to Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.NetAnalyzers version 7.0.0-preview1.22464.1 or newer or use the analyzers from the .NET 7 SDK.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1505
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1505
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1505.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Maintainability.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure threshold

You can configure the threshold at which this rule fires.

1. Create a text file. As an example, you can name it *CodeMetricsConfig.txt*.

2. Add the desired threshold to the text file in the following format:

   ```txt
   CA1505: 10
   ```

   In this example, the rule is configured to fire when a method's maintainability index is less than 10.

3. In the project file, mark the build action of the configuration file as [**AdditionalFiles**](/visualstudio/ide/build-actions#build-action-values). For example:

   ```xml
   <ItemGroup>
     <AdditionalFiles Include="CodeMetricsConfig.txt" />
   </ItemGroup>
   ```

## See also

- [Maintainability rules](maintainability-warnings.md)
- [Measure complexity and maintainability of managed code](/visualstudio/code-quality/code-metrics-values)
