---
title: "CA1508: Avoid dead conditional code (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1508: Avoid dead conditional code"
ms.date: 04/23/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA1508"
  - "AvoidDeadConditionalCode"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA1508"
  - "AvoidDeadConditionalCode"
author: mavasani
ms.author: mavasani
---
# CA1508: Avoid dead conditional code

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1508|
| **Category** |[Maintainability](maintainability-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-Breaking|

## Cause

A method has conditional code that always evaluates to `true` or `false` at run time. This leads to dead code in the `false` branch of the condition.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Methods can have conditional code, such as if statements, binary expressions (`==`, `!=`, `<`, `>`), null checks, etc. For example, consider the following code:

```csharp
public void M(int i, int j)
{
    if (i != 0)
    {
        return;
    }

    if (j != 0)
    {
        return;
    }

    // Below condition will always evaluate to 'false' as 'i' and 'j' are both '0' here.
    if (i != j)
    {
        // Code in this 'if' branch is dead code.
        // It can either be removed or refactored.
        ...
    }
}
```

C# and VB compilers perform analysis of conditional checks involving compile-time _constant values_ that always evaluate to `true` or `false`. This analyzer performs data flow analysis of non-constant variables to determine redundant conditional checks involving _non-constant values_. In the preceding code, the analyzer determines that `i` and `j` are both `0` for all code paths that reach `i != j` check. Hence, this check will always evaluate to `false` at run time. The code inside the if statement is dead code and can be removed or refactored. Similarly, the analyzer tracks nullness of variables and reports redundant null checks.

> [!NOTE]
> This analyzer performs an expensive dataflow analysis of non-constant values. This can increase the overall compile time on certain code bases.

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a violation of this rule if you're not concerned about the maintainability of your code. It is also fine to suppress violations that are identified to be false positives. These are possible in the presence of concurrent code that can execute from multiple threads.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Maintainability](maintainability-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## See also

- [Maintainability rules](maintainability-warnings.md)
