---
title: "CA1721: Property names should not match get methods (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1721: Property names should not match get methods"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1721
- PropertyNamesShouldNotMatchGetMethods
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1721
- PropertyNamesShouldNotMatchGetMethods
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1721: Property names should not match get methods

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1721|
| **Category** |[Naming](naming-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

The name of a member starts with 'Get' and otherwise matches the name of a property. For example, a type that contains a method that's named 'GetColor' and a property that's named 'Color' cause a rule violation.
This rule will not fire if either the property or the method is marked with the <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute>.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible members and properties, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

"Get" methods and properties should have names that clearly distinguish their function.

Naming conventions provide a common look for libraries that target the common language runtime. This consistency reduces the time that's required to learn a new software library and increases customer confidence that the library was developed by someone who has expertise in developing managed code.

## How to fix violations

Change the name so that it does not match the name of a method that is prefixed with 'Get'.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. One exception to that rule is if the "Get" method is caused by implementing the <xref:System.ComponentModel.IExtenderProvider> interface.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1721
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1721
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1721.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Naming.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Naming](naming-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example contains a method and property that violate this rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1721.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1721-property-names-should-not-match-get-methods_1.vb":::

## Related rules

- [CA1024: Use properties where appropriate](ca1024.md)
