---
title: "CA1707: Identifiers should not contain underscores (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1707: Identifiers should not contain underscores"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IdentifiersShouldNotContainUnderscores
- CA1707
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1707
- IdentifiersShouldNotContainUnderscores
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1707: Identifiers should not contain underscores

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1707|
| **Category** |[Naming](naming-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking - when raised on assemblies<br/><br/>Non-breaking - when raised on type parameters|

## Cause

The name of an identifier contains the underscore (\_) character.

## Rule description

By convention, identifier names do not contain the underscore (\_) character. The rule checks namespaces, types, members, and parameters.

Naming conventions provide a common look for libraries that target the common language runtime. This reduces the learning curve that is required for new software libraries, and increases customer confidence that the library was developed by someone who has expertise in developing managed code.

## How to fix violations

Remove all underscore characters from the name.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress warnings for production code. However, it's safe to suppress this warning for test code.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1707
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1707
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1707.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Naming.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

For well-known methods in Microsoft code that currently use an underscore and cannot be modified, the rule should be suppressed.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Naming](naming-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Related rules

- [CA1708: Identifiers should differ by more than case](ca1708.md)
