---
title: "CA1802: Use Literals Where Appropriate (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1802: Use Literals Where Appropriate"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- UseLiteralsWhereAppropriate
- CA1802
helpviewer_keywords:
- UseLiteralsWhereAppropriate
- CA1802
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1802: Use Literals Where Appropriate

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1802                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

## Cause

A field is declared `static` and `readonly` (`Shared` and `ReadOnly` in Visual Basic), and is initialized with a value that is computable at compile time.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible, static, readonly fields, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

The value of a `static readonly` field is computed at run time when the static constructor for the declaring type is called. If the `static readonly` field is initialized when it is declared and a static constructor is not declared explicitly, the compiler emits a static constructor to initialize the field.

The value of a `const` field is computed at compile time and stored in the metadata, which improves run-time performance when it is compared to a `static readonly` field.

Because the value assigned to the targeted field is computable at compile time, change the declaration to a `const` field so that the value is computed at compile time instead of at run time.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, replace the `static` and `readonly` modifiers with the `const` modifier.

> [!NOTE]
> The use of the [const](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/const.md) modifier is not recommended for all scenarios.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule, or disable the rule, if performance is not of concern.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1802
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1802
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1802.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)
- [Required modifiers](#required-modifiers)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Performance](performance-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

### Required modifiers

You can configure this rule to override the required field modifiers. By default, `static` and `readonly` are both required modifiers for fields that are analyzed. You can override this to a comma separated listed of one or more modifier values from the below table:

| Option Value         | Summary                                                  |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `none`               | No modifier requirement.                                 |
| `static` or `Shared` | Must be declared as 'static' ('Shared' in Visual Basic). |
| `const`              | Must be declared as 'const'.                             |
| `readonly`           | Must be declared as 'readonly'.                          |

For example, to specify that the rule should run against both static and instance fields, add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project:

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1802.required_modifiers = none
```

## Example

The following example shows a type, `UseReadOnly`, that violates the rule and a type, `UseConstant`, that satisfies the rule.

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1802-use-literals-where-appropriate_1.vb":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1802.cs" id="snippet1":::
