---
title: "CA1806: Do not ignore method results (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1806: Do not ignore method results"
ms.date: 06/08/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1806
- DoNotIgnoreMethodResults
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1806
- DoNotIgnoreMethodResults
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1806: Do not ignore method results

|                                     | Value                                  |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1806                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |

## Cause

There are several possible reasons for this warning:

- A new object is created but never used.

- A method that creates and returns a new string is called and the new string is never used.

- A COM or P/Invoke method that returns a `HRESULT` or error code that's never used.

- A language-integrated query (LINQ) method that returns a result that's never used.

## Rule description

Unnecessary object creation and the associated garbage collection of the unused object degrade performance.

Strings are immutable and methods such as <xref:System.String.ToUpper%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> return a new instance of a string instead of modifying the instance of the string in the calling method.

Ignoring `HRESULT` or an error code can lead to low-resource conditions or unexpected behavior in error conditions.

LINQ methods are known to not have side effects, and the result should not be ignored.

## How to fix violations

If a method creates a new instance of an object that's never used, pass the instance as an argument to another method or assign the instance to a variable. If the object creation is unnecessary, remove it.

-or-

If method A calls method B but does not use the new string instance that method B returns, pass the instance as an argument to another method or assign the instance to a variable. Or remove the call if it's unnecessary.

-or-

If method A calls method B but does not use the `HRESULT` or error code that the method returns, use the result in a conditional statement, assign the result to a variable, or pass it as an argument to another method.

-or-

If a LINQ method A calls method B but does not use the result, use the result in a conditional statement, assign the result to a variable, or pass it as an argument to another method.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule unless the act of creating the object serves some purpose.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1806
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1806
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1806.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Performance.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

### Additional methods to enforce

You can configure this rule to check that results from additional custom APIs are used. Specify one or more methods as the *value* of the `additional_use_results_methods` option. To specify multiple method names, separate them with `|`. The allowable formats for the method name are:

- Method name only (which will include all methods with that name, regardless of their containing type or namespace).
- Fully qualified name in the [documentation ID format](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/language-specification/documentation-comments#d4-processing-the-documentation-file), with an optional `M:` prefix.

For example, to specify that rule CA1806 should also check that the result from a method named `MyMethod1` is used, add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1806.additional_use_results_methods = MyMethod1
```

Or, use the fully qualified name to disambiguate or ensure that only a specific method with that name is included.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1806.additional_use_results_methods = M:MyNamespace.MyType.MyMethod1(ParamType)
```

## Example 1

The following example shows a class that ignores the result of calling <xref:System.String.Trim%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

## Example 2

The following example fixes the [Example 1](#example-1) violation by assigning the result of <xref:System.String.Trim%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> back to the variable it was called on.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet2":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

## Example 3

The following example shows a method that does not use an object that it creates.

> [!NOTE]
> This violation cannot be reproduced in Visual Basic.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet3":::

## Example 4

The following example fixes the [Example 3](#example-3) violation by removing the unnecessary creation of an object.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet4":::

<!-- Examples don't exist for the following...
The following example shows a method that ignores the error code that the native method GetShortPathName returns.
The following example fixes the previous violation by checking the error code and throwing an exception when the call fails.
-->
