---
title: "CA1801: Review unused parameters (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1801: Review unused parameters"
ms.date: 06/24/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- AvoidUnusedParameters
- CA1801
- ReviewUnusedParameters
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1801
- ReviewUnusedParameters
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1801: Review unused parameters

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1801|
| **Category** |[Usage](usage-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking - If the member is not visible outside the assembly, regardless of the change you make.<br/><br/>Non-breaking - If you change the member to use the parameter within its body.<br/><br/>Breaking - If you remove the parameter and it is visible outside the assembly.|

## Cause

A method signature includes a parameter that's not used in the method body.

This rule does not examine the following kinds of methods:

- Methods referenced by a delegate.

- Methods used as event handlers.

- Serialization constructors (see [guidelines](../../../standard/serialization/serialization-guidelines.md#runtime-serialization)).

- Serialization <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.ISerializable.GetObjectData%2A> methods.

- Methods declared with the `abstract` (`MustOverride` in Visual Basic) modifier.

- Methods declared with the `virtual` (`Overridable` in Visual Basic) modifier.

- Methods declared with the `override` (`Overrides` in Visual Basic) modifier.

- Methods declared with the `extern` (`Declare` statement in Visual Basic) modifier.

This rule does not flag parameters that are named with the [discard](../../../csharp/fundamentals/functional/discards.md) symbol, for example, `_`, `_1`, and `_2`. This reduces warning noise on parameters that are needed for signature requirements, for example, a method used as a delegate, a parameter with special attributes, or a parameter whose value is implicitly accessed at run time by a framework but is not referenced in code.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated in favor of [IDE0060](../style-rules/ide0060.md). For information about how to enforce the IDE0060 analyzer at build, see [code-style analysis](../overview.md#code-style-analysis).

## Rule description

Review parameters in non-virtual methods that are not used in the method body to make sure no incorrectness exists around failure to access them. Unused parameters incur maintenance and performance costs.

Sometimes, a violation of this rule can point to an implementation bug in the method. For example, the parameter should have been used in the method body. Suppress warnings of this rule if the parameter must exist because of backward compatibility.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, remove the unused parameter (a breaking change), or use the parameter in the method body (a non-breaking change).

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule:

- In previously shipped code for which the fix would be a breaking change.

- For the `this` parameter in a custom extension method for <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.TestTools.UnitTesting.Assert?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The functions in the <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.TestTools.UnitTesting.Assert> class are static, so there's no need to access the `this` parameter in the method body.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category (Performance). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

By default, the CA1801 rule applies to all API surfaces (public, internal, and private).

## Example

The following example shows two methods. One method violates the rule and the other method satisfies the rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1801.cs" id="snippet1":::

## Related rules

- [CA1812: Avoid uninstantiated internal classes](ca1812.md)
- [CA2229: Implement serialization constructors](ca2229.md)
