---
title: "CA1819: Properties should not return arrays (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1819: Properties should not return arrays"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- PropertiesShouldNotReturnArrays
- CA1819
helpviewer_keywords:
- PropertiesShouldNotReturnArrays
- CA1819
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1819: Properties should not return arrays

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1819|
| **Category** |[Performance](performance-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

A property returns an array.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible properties and types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

Arrays returned by properties are not write-protected, even if the property is read-only. To keep the array tamper-proof, the property must return a copy of the array. Typically, users won't understand the adverse performance implications of calling such a property. Specifically, they might use the property as an indexed property.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, either make the property a method or change the property to return a collection.

## When to suppress warnings

You can suppress a warning that's raised for a property of an attribute that's derived from the <xref:System.Attribute> class. Attributes can contain properties that return arrays, but can't contain properties that return collections.

You can suppress the warning if the property is part of a [Data Transfer Object (DTO)](/previous-versions/msp-n-p/ff649585(v=pandp.10)) class.

Otherwise, do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1819
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1819
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1819.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Performance.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Performance](performance-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Example violation

The following example shows a property that violates this rule:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1819.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1819-properties-should-not-return-arrays_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

To fix a violation of this rule, either make the property a method or change the property to return a collection instead of an array.

### Change the property to a method

The following example fixes the violation by changing the property to a method:

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1819-properties-should-not-return-arrays_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1819.cs" id="snippet2":::

### Change the property to return a collection

The following example fixes the violation by changing the property to return a <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyCollection%601?displayProperty=fullName>:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1819.cs" id="snippet3":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1819-properties-should-not-return-arrays_1.vb" id="snippet3":::

## Allow users to modify a property

You might want to allow the consumer of the class to modify a property. The following example shows a read/write property that violates this rule:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1819.cs" id="snippet4":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1819-properties-should-not-return-arrays_1.vb" id="snippet4":::

The following example fixes the violation by changing the property to return a <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.Collection%601?displayProperty=fullName>:

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1819-properties-should-not-return-arrays_1.vb" id="snippet5":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1819.cs" id="snippet5":::

## Related rules

- [CA1024: Use properties where appropriate](ca1024.md)
