---
title: "CA1824: Mark assemblies with NeutralResourcesLanguageAttribute (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1824: Mark assemblies with NeutralResourcesLanguageAttribute"
ms.date: 03/29/2018
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1824
- MarkAssembliesWithNeutralResourcesLanguage
helpviewer_keywords:
- MarkAssembliesWithNeutralResourcesLanguage
- CA1824
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1824: Mark assemblies with NeutralResourcesLanguageAttribute

|  | Value |
|--|--|
| **Rule ID** | CA1824 |
| **Category** | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking |

## Cause

An assembly contains a **ResX**-based resource but does not have the <xref:System.Resources.NeutralResourcesLanguageAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> applied to it.

## Rule description

The <xref:System.Resources.NeutralResourcesLanguageAttribute> attribute informs the resource manager of an app's default culture. If the default culture's resources are embedded in the app's main assembly, and <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> has to retrieve resources that belong to the same culture as the default culture, the <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> automatically uses the resources located in the main assembly instead of searching for a satellite assembly. This bypasses the usual assembly probe, improves lookup performance for the first resource you load, and can reduce your working set.

> [!TIP]
> See [Package and deploy resources](../../../core/extensions/package-and-deploy-resources.md) for the process that <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> uses to probe for resource files.

## Fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, add the attribute to the assembly, and specify the language of the resources of the neutral culture.

### To specify the neutral language for resources

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click your project, and then select **Properties**.

2. Select the **Package** tab.

   > [!NOTE]
   > If your project is a .NET Framework project, select the **Application** tab, and then select **Assembly Information**.

3. Select the language from the **Neutral language** or **Assembly neutral language** drop-down list.

4. Select **OK**.

## When to suppress warnings

It's permissible to suppress a warning from this rule. However, startup performance might degrade. To suppress this warning, add `dotnet_diagnostic.CA1824.severity = none` to your *.globalconfig* or *.editorconfig* file.

## See also

- <xref:System.Resources.NeutralResourcesLanguageAttribute>
- [Resources in .NET apps](../../../core/extensions/resources.md)
