docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1812.md, before:

---
title: "CA1812: Avoid uninstantiated internal classes (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1812: Avoid uninstantiated internal classes"
ms.date: 01/03/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1812
- AvoidUninstantiatedInternalClasses
helpviewer_keywords:
- AvoidUninstantiatedInternalClasses
- CA1812
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1812: Avoid uninstantiated internal classes

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1812                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

## Cause

An internal (assembly-level) type is never instantiated.

## Rule description

This rule tries to locate a call to one of the constructors of the type and reports a violation if no call is found.

The following types are not examined by this rule:

- Value types
- Abstract types
- Enumerations
- Delegates
- Compiler-emitted array types

- Types that cannot be instantiated and that only define [`static`](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/static.md) ([`Shared` in Visual Basic](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/modifiers/shared.md)) methods.

If you apply the <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.InternalsVisibleToAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> to the assembly that's being analyzed, this rule will not flag types that are marked as [`internal`](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/internal.md) ([`Friend` in Visual Basic](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/modifiers/friend.md)) because a field may be used by a friend assembly.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, remove the type or add code that uses it. If the type contains only `static` methods, add one of the following to the type to prevent the compiler from emitting a default public instance constructor:

- The `static` modifier for C# types that target .NET Framework 2.0 or later.

- A private constructor for types that target .NET Framework versions 1.0 and 1.1.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule. We recommend that you suppress this warning in the following situations:

- The class is created through late-bound reflection methods such as <xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance%2A?displayProperty=fullName>.

- The class is registered in an inversion of control (IoC) container as part of the [dependency injection](../../../core/extensions/dependency-injection.md) pattern.

- The class is created automatically by the runtime or ASP.NET. Some examples of automatically created classes are those that implement <xref:System.Configuration.IConfigurationSectionHandler?displayProperty=fullName> or <xref:System.Web.IHttpHandler?displayProperty=fullName>.

- The class is used as a type parameter in a class definition and has a [`new` constraint](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/new-constraint.md). The following example will be flagged by rule CA1812:

    ```csharp
    internal class MyClass
    {
        public void DoSomething()
        {
        }
    }
    public class MyGeneric<T> where T : new()
    {
        public T Create()
        {
            return new T();
        }
    }

    MyGeneric<MyClass> mc = new MyGeneric<MyClass>();
    mc.Create();
    ```

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1812
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1812
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1812.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Related rules

- [CA1801: Review unused parameters](ca1801.md)

Commit message:

add new option to ca1812 and ca1852

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1812.md, after:

---
title: "CA1812: Avoid uninstantiated internal classes (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1812: Avoid uninstantiated internal classes"
ms.date: 05/19/2023
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1812
- AvoidUninstantiatedInternalClasses
helpviewer_keywords:
- AvoidUninstantiatedInternalClasses
- CA1812
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA1812: Avoid uninstantiated internal classes

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1812                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

## Cause

An internal (assembly-level) type is never instantiated.

## Rule description

This rule tries to locate a call to one of the constructors of the type and reports a violation if no call is found.

The following types are not examined by this rule:

- Value types
- Abstract types
- Enumerations
- Delegates
- Compiler-emitted array types
- Types that can't be instantiated and that only define [`static`](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/static.md) methods.

If you apply <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.InternalsVisibleToAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> to the assembly that's being analyzed, this rule doesn't flag types that are marked as [`internal`](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/internal.md) ([`Friend` in Visual Basic](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/modifiers/friend.md)) by default, because a field may be used by a friend assembly. To analyze the assembly anyway, see [Configure code to analyze](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, remove the type or add code that uses it. If the type contains only `static` methods, add the `static` modifier to the type to prevent the compiler from emitting a default public instance constructor.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule. We recommend that you suppress this warning in the following situations:

- The class is created through late-bound reflection methods such as <xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance%2A?displayProperty=fullName>.

- The class is registered in an inversion of control (IoC) container as part of the [dependency injection](../../../core/extensions/dependency-injection.md) pattern.

- The class is created automatically by the runtime or ASP.NET. Some examples of automatically created classes are those that implement <xref:System.Configuration.IConfigurationSectionHandler?displayProperty=fullName> or <xref:System.Web.IHttpHandler?displayProperty=fullName>.

- The class is used as a type parameter in a class definition and has a [`new` constraint](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/new-constraint.md). The following example will be flagged by rule CA1812:

    ```csharp
    internal class MyClass
    {
        public void DoSomething()
        {
        }
    }
    public class MyGeneric<T> where T : new()
    {
        public T Create()
        {
            return new T();
        }
    }

    MyGeneric<MyClass> mc = new MyGeneric<MyClass>();
    mc.Create();
    ```

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1812
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1812
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1812.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Ignore InternalsVisibleTo attribute](#ignore-internalsvisibleto-attribute)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category (Performance). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE [ignore-ivt](../includes/ignore-ivt.md)]

## Related rules

- [CA1801: Review unused parameters](ca1801.md)
