docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1806.md, before:

---
title: "CA1806: Do not ignore method results (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1806: Do not ignore method results"
ms.date: 06/08/2022
f1_keywords:
- CA1806
- DoNotIgnoreMethodResults
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1806
- DoNotIgnoreMethodResults
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1806: Do not ignore method results

| Property                            | Value                                  |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1806                                 |
| **Title**                           | Do not ignore method results           |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 9**    | As suggestion                          |

## Cause

There are several possible reasons for this warning:

- A new object is created but never used.
- A method that creates and returns a new string is called and the new string is never used.
- A COM or P/Invoke method returns a `HRESULT` or error code that's never used.
- A language-integrated query (LINQ) method returns a result that's never used.

## Rule description

Unnecessary object creation and the associated garbage collection of the unused object degrade performance.

Strings are immutable and methods such as <xref:System.String.ToUpper%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> return a new instance of a string instead of modifying the instance of the string in the calling method.

Ignoring `HRESULT` or an error code can lead to low-resource conditions or unexpected behavior in error conditions.

LINQ methods are known to not have side effects, and the result should not be ignored.

## How to fix violations

If a method creates a new instance of an object that's never used, pass the instance as an argument to another method or assign the instance to a variable. If the object creation is unnecessary, remove it.

-or-

If method A calls method B but does not use the new string instance that method B returns, pass the instance as an argument to another method or assign the instance to a variable. Or remove the call if it's unnecessary.

-or-

If method A calls method B but does not use the `HRESULT` or error code that the method returns, use the result in a conditional statement, assign the result to a variable, or pass it as an argument to another method.

-or-

If a LINQ method A calls method B but does not use the result, use the result in a conditional statement, assign the result to a variable, or pass it as an argument to another method.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule unless the act of creating the object serves some purpose.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1806
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1806
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1806.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

### Additional methods to enforce

You can configure this rule to check that results from additional custom APIs are used. Specify one or more methods as the *value* of the `additional_use_results_methods` option. To specify multiple method names, separate them with `|`. The allowable formats for the method name are:

- Method name only (which will include all methods with that name, regardless of their containing type or namespace).
- Fully qualified name in the [documentation ID format](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/language-specification/documentation-comments#d4-processing-the-documentation-file), with an optional `M:` prefix.

For example, to specify that rule CA1806 should also check that the result from a method named `MyMethod1` is used, add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1806.additional_use_results_methods = MyMethod1
```

Or, use the fully qualified name to disambiguate or ensure that only a specific method with that name is included.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1806.additional_use_results_methods = M:MyNamespace.MyType.MyMethod1(ParamType)
```

## Example 1

The following example shows a class that ignores the result of calling <xref:System.String.Trim%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet1":::
:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

The following example fixes the violation by assigning the result of <xref:System.String.Trim%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> back to the variable it was called on.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet2":::
:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

## Example 2

The following example shows a method that doesn't use an object that it creates.

> [!NOTE]
> This violation cannot be reproduced in Visual Basic.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet3":::

The following example fixes the violation by removing the unnecessary creation of an object.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet4":::

Commit message:

Update CA1806 with Pure methods (#49544)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1806.md, after:

---
title: "CA1806: Do not ignore method results (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1806: Do not ignore method results"
ms.date: 10/30/2025
f1_keywords:
- CA1806
- DoNotIgnoreMethodResults
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1806
- DoNotIgnoreMethodResults
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA1806: Do not ignore method results

| Property                            | Value                                  |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1806                                 |
| **Title**                           | Do not ignore method results           |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 9**    | As suggestion                          |

## Cause

There are several possible reasons for this warning:

- A new object is created but never used.
- A method that creates and returns a new string is called and the new string is never used.
- A COM or P/Invoke method returns a `HRESULT` or error code that's never used.
- A language-integrated query (LINQ) method returns a result that's never used.
- A `[Pure]` method is called and the return value is never used.

## Rule description

Unnecessary object creation and the associated garbage collection of the unused object degrade performance.

Strings are immutable and methods such as <xref:System.String.ToUpper%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> return a new instance of a string instead of modifying the instance of the string in the calling method.

Ignoring `HRESULT` or an error code can lead to low-resource conditions or unexpected behavior in error conditions.

LINQ methods and methods annotated with <xref:System.Diagnostics.Contracts.PureAttribute> are known to not have side effects, and the result should not be ignored.

## How to fix violations

If a method creates a new instance of an object that's never used, pass the instance as an argument to another method or assign the instance to a variable. If the object creation is unnecessary, remove it.

-or-

If method A calls method B but does not use the new string instance that method B returns, pass the instance as an argument to another method or assign the instance to a variable. Or remove the call if it's unnecessary.

-or-

If method A calls method B but does not use the `HRESULT` or error code that the method returns, use the result in a conditional statement, assign the result to a variable, or pass it as an argument to another method.

-or-

If method A calls a LINQ or pure method B but does not use the result, use the result in a conditional statement, assign the result to a variable, or pass it as an argument to another method.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule unless the act of creating the object serves some purpose.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA1806
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA1806
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1806.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

### Additional methods to enforce

You can configure this rule to check that results from additional custom APIs are used. Specify one or more methods as the *value* of the `additional_use_results_methods` option. To specify multiple method names, separate them with `|`. The allowable formats for the method name are:

- Method name only (which will include all methods with that name, regardless of their containing type or namespace).
- Fully qualified name in the [documentation ID format](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/language-specification/documentation-comments#d4-processing-the-documentation-file), with an optional `M:` prefix.

For example, to specify that rule CA1806 should also check that the result from a method named `MyMethod1` is used, add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1806.additional_use_results_methods = MyMethod1
```

Or, use the fully qualified name to disambiguate or ensure that only a specific method with that name is included.

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA1806.additional_use_results_methods = M:MyNamespace.MyType.MyMethod1(ParamType)
```

## Example 1

The following example shows a class that ignores the result of calling <xref:System.String.Trim%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet1":::
:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

The following example fixes the violation by assigning the result of <xref:System.String.Trim%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> back to the variable it was called on.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet2":::
:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

## Example 2

The following example shows a method that doesn't use an object that it creates.

> [!NOTE]
> This violation can't be reproduced in Visual Basic.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet3":::

The following example fixes the violation by removing the unnecessary creation of an object.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca1806.cs" id="snippet4":::
