docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1845.md, before:

---
title: "CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat' (analysis rule)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat'"
ms.date: 05/18/2021
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "UseSpanBasedStringConcat"
  - "CA1845"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "UseSpanBasedStringConcat"
  - "CA1845"
author: NewellClark
dev_langs:
  - CSharp
---
# CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat'

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1845|
| **Category** |[Performance](performance-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

This rule locates string-concatenation expressions that contain <xref:System.String.Substring%2A> calls and suggests replacing <xref:System.String.Substring%2A> with <xref:System.MemoryExtensions.AsSpan%2A> and using the span-based overload of <xref:System.String.Concat%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## Rule description

Calling `Substring` produces a copy of the extracted substring. By using `AsSpan` instead of `Substring` and calling the overload of `string.Concat` that accepts spans, you can eliminate the unnecessary string allocation.

## How to fix violations

To fix violations:

1. Replace the string concatenation with a call to `string.Concat`, and
2. Replace calls to `Substring` with calls to `AsSpan`.

The following code snippet shows examples of violations, and how to fix them.

```csharp
using System;

class Example
{
    public void Method()
    {
        string text = "fwobz the fwutzle";

        //  Violation: allocations by Substring are wasteful.
        string s1 = text.Substring(10) + "---" + text.Substring(0, 5);

        //  Fixed: using AsSpan avoids allocations of temporary strings.
        string s2 = string.Concat(text.AsSpan(10), "---", text.AsSpan(0, 5));
    }
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress warnings from this rule. There is no reason to use `Substring` over `AsSpan` when the extracted substring is only being passed to a method with a span-based equivalent.

## See also

- [Performance rules](performance-warnings.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1845.md, after:

---
title: "CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat' (analysis rule)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat'"
ms.date: 05/18/2021
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "UseSpanBasedStringConcat"
  - "CA1845"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "UseSpanBasedStringConcat"
  - "CA1845"
author: NewellClark
dev_langs:
  - CSharp
---
# CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat'

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1845                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

## Cause

This rule locates string-concatenation expressions that contain <xref:System.String.Substring%2A> calls and suggests replacing <xref:System.String.Substring%2A> with <xref:System.MemoryExtensions.AsSpan%2A> and using the span-based overload of <xref:System.String.Concat%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## Rule description

Calling `Substring` produces a copy of the extracted substring. By using `AsSpan` instead of `Substring` and calling the overload of `string.Concat` that accepts spans, you can eliminate the unnecessary string allocation.

## How to fix violations

To fix violations:

1. Replace the string concatenation with a call to `string.Concat`, and
2. Replace calls to `Substring` with calls to `AsSpan`.

The following code snippet shows examples of violations, and how to fix them.

```csharp
using System;

class Example
{
    public void Method()
    {
        string text = "fwobz the fwutzle";

        //  Violation: allocations by Substring are wasteful.
        string s1 = text.Substring(10) + "---" + text.Substring(0, 5);

        //  Fixed: using AsSpan avoids allocations of temporary strings.
        string s2 = string.Concat(text.AsSpan(10), "---", text.AsSpan(0, 5));
    }
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress warnings from this rule. There is no reason to use `Substring` over `AsSpan` when the extracted substring is only being passed to a method with a span-based equivalent.

## See also

- [Performance rules](performance-warnings.md)
