docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2015.md, before:

---
title: "CA2015: Do not define finalizers for types derived from MemoryManager&lt;T&gt; (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule ca2015: Do not define finalizers for types derived from MemoryManager&lt;T&gt;"
ms.date: 05/18/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "DoNotDefineFinalizersForTypesDerivedFromMemoryManager"
  - "CA2015"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "DoNotDefineFinalizersForTypesDerivedFromMemoryManager"
  - "CA2015"
author: buyaa-n
ms.author: bunamnan
---
# CA2015: Do not define finalizers for types derived from MemoryManager&lt;T&gt;

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2015|
| **Category** |[Reliability](reliability-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

Defining finalizers for types derived from <xref:System.Buffers.MemoryManager%601>

## Rule description

Adding a finalizer to a type derived from <xref:System.Buffers.MemoryManager%601> is likely an indication of a bug, as it suggests a native resource that could have been handed out in a <xref:System.Span%601> is getting cleaned up and potentially while it is still in use by the <xref:System.Span%601>.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:System.Buffers.MemoryManager%601> class is intended for advanced scenarios. Most developers do not need to use it.

## How to fix violations

To fix the violation, remove the finalizer definition.

```csharp
class DerivedClass <T> : MemoryManager<T>
{
    public override bool Dispose(bool disposing)
    {
        if (disposing)
        {
            _handle.Dispose();
        }
    }

    ...

    // Violation occurs, remove the finalizer to fix the warning.
    ~DerivedClass() => Dispose(false);
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a violation of this rule if the intent is to create a finalizer for debugging or validation purposes.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2015
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2015
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2015.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Reliability.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Related rules

- [CA1821: Remove empty finalizers](ca1821.md)

## See also

- [Reliability rules](reliability-warnings.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2015.md, after:

---
title: "CA2015: Do not define finalizers for types derived from MemoryManager&lt;T&gt; (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule ca2015: Do not define finalizers for types derived from MemoryManager&lt;T&gt;"
ms.date: 05/18/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "DoNotDefineFinalizersForTypesDerivedFromMemoryManager"
  - "CA2015"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "DoNotDefineFinalizersForTypesDerivedFromMemoryManager"
  - "CA2015"
author: buyaa-n
ms.author: bunamnan
---
# CA2015: Do not define finalizers for types derived from MemoryManager&lt;T&gt;

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2015                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Reliability](reliability-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | Yes                                    |

## Cause

Defining finalizers for types derived from <xref:System.Buffers.MemoryManager%601>

## Rule description

Adding a finalizer to a type derived from <xref:System.Buffers.MemoryManager%601> is likely an indication of a bug, as it suggests a native resource that could have been handed out in a <xref:System.Span%601> is getting cleaned up and potentially while it is still in use by the <xref:System.Span%601>.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:System.Buffers.MemoryManager%601> class is intended for advanced scenarios. Most developers do not need to use it.

## How to fix violations

To fix the violation, remove the finalizer definition.

```csharp
class DerivedClass <T> : MemoryManager<T>
{
    public override bool Dispose(bool disposing)
    {
        if (disposing)
        {
            _handle.Dispose();
        }
    }

    ...

    // Violation occurs, remove the finalizer to fix the warning.
    ~DerivedClass() => Dispose(false);
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a violation of this rule if the intent is to create a finalizer for debugging or validation purposes.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2015
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2015
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2015.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Reliability.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Related rules

- [CA1821: Remove empty finalizers](ca1821.md)

## See also

- [Reliability rules](reliability-warnings.md)
