---
title: "CA2007: Do not directly await a Task (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2007: Do not directly await a Task"
ms.date: 03/08/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2007
- DoNotDirectlyAwaitATaskAnalyzer
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2007
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
---
# CA2007: Do not directly await a Task

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2007|
| **Category** |[Reliability](reliability-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

An asynchronous method [awaits](../../../csharp/language-reference/operators/await.md) a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> directly.

## Rule description

When an asynchronous method awaits a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> directly, continuation usually occurs in the same thread that created the task, depending on the async context. This behavior can be costly in terms of performance and can result in a deadlock on the UI thread. Consider calling <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.ConfigureAwait(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> to signal your intention for continuation.

## How to fix violations

To fix violations, call <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.ConfigureAwait%2A> on the awaited <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task>. You can pass either `true` or `false` for the `continueOnCapturedContext` parameter.

- Calling `ConfigureAwait(true)` on the task has the same behavior as not explicitly calling <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.ConfigureAwait%2A>. By explicitly calling this method, you're letting readers know you intentionally want to perform the continuation on the original synchronization context.

- Call `ConfigureAwait(false)` on the task to schedule continuations to the thread pool, thereby avoiding a deadlock on the UI thread. Passing `false` is a good option for app-independent libraries.

## Example

The following code snippet generates the warning:

```csharp
public async Task Execute()
{
    Task task = null;
    await task;
}
```

To fix the violation, call <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.ConfigureAwait%2A> on the awaited <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task>:

```csharp
public async Task Execute()
{
    Task task = null;
    await task.ConfigureAwait(false);
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

This warning is intended for libraries, where the code may be executed in arbitrary environments and where code shouldn't make assumptions about the environment or how the caller of the method may be invoking or waiting on it. It is generally appropriate to suppress the warning entirely for projects that represent application code rather than library code; in fact, running this analyzer on application code (for example, button click event handlers in a WinForms or WPF project) is likely to lead to the wrong actions being taken.

You can suppress this warning in any situation where either the continuation should be scheduled back to the original context or where there is no such context in place. For example, when writing code in a button click event handler in a WinForms or WPF application, in general the continuation from an await should run on the UI thread, and thus the default behavior of scheduling the continuation back to the originating context is desirable. As another example, when writing code in an ASP.NET Core application, by default there is no <xref:System.Threading.SynchronizationContext> or <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskScheduler>, for which reason a `ConfigureAwait` wouldn't actually change any behavior.

[!INCLUDE [suppress-warning](../../../../includes/code-analysis/suppress-warning.md)]

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude async void methods](#exclude-async-void-methods)
- [Output kind](#output-kind)

You can configure all of these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Reliability](reliability-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

### Exclude async void methods

You can configure whether you want to exclude asynchronous methods that don't return a value from this rule. To exclude these kinds of methods, add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project:

```ini
# Package version 2.9.0 and later
dotnet_code_quality.CA2007.exclude_async_void_methods = true

# Package version 2.6.3 and earlier
dotnet_code_quality.CA2007.skip_async_void_methods = true
```

### Output kind

You can also configure which output assembly kinds to apply this rule to. For example, to only apply this rule to code that produces a console application or a dynamically linked library (that is, not a UI app), add the following key-value pair to an *.editorconfig* file in your project:

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.CA2007.output_kind = ConsoleApplication, DynamicallyLinkedLibrary
```

## See also

- [ConfigureAwait FAQ](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/configureawait-faq/)
- [Should I await a task with ConfigureAwait(false)?](https://github.com/Microsoft/vs-threading/blob/main/doc/cookbook_vs.md#should-i-await-a-task-with-configureawaitfalse)
- [CA2008: Do not create tasks without passing a TaskScheduler](ca2008.md)
- [Reliability rules](reliability-warnings.md)
