docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2018.md, before:

---
title: "CA2018: The count argument to Buffer.BlockCopy should specify the number of bytes to copy"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2018: The count argument to Buffer.BlockCopy should specify the number of bytes to copy"
ms.date: 08/17/2021
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "BufferBlockCopyLength"
  - "CA2018"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "BufferBlockCopyLength"
  - "CA2018"
author: mahdiva
---
# CA2018: The `count` argument to `Buffer.BlockCopy` should specify the number of bytes to copy

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2018|
| **Category** |[Reliability](reliability-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

This rule fires when `Array.Length` is used for the `count` argument of `Buffer.BlockCopy` on arrays whose elements are larger than one byte in size.

## Rule description

When using `Buffer.BlockCopy`, the `count` argument specifies the number of bytes to copy. You should only use `Array.Length` for the `count` argument on arrays whose elements are exactly one byte in size. `byte`, `sbyte`, and `bool` arrays have elements that are one byte in size.

## How to fix violations

Specify the number of bytes that you intend to copy for the `count` argument.

### Example

**Violation**:

```csharp
using System;
class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        int[] src = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
        int[] dst = new int[] {0, 0, 0, 0};

        Buffer.BlockCopy(src, 0, dst, 0, src.Length);
    }
}
```

**Fix**:

If your array's elements are larger than one byte in size, you can multiply the length of the array by the element size to get the number of bytes.

```csharp
using System;
class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        int[] src = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
        int[] dst = new int[] {0, 0, 0, 0};

        Buffer.BlockCopy(src, 0, dst, 0, src.Length * sizeof(int));
    }
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

It is generally NOT safe to suppress a warning from this rule.

## See also

- [Reliability rules](reliability-warnings.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2018.md, after:

---
title: "CA2018: The count argument to Buffer.BlockCopy should specify the number of bytes to copy"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2018: The count argument to Buffer.BlockCopy should specify the number of bytes to copy"
ms.date: 08/17/2021
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "BufferBlockCopyLength"
  - "CA2018"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "BufferBlockCopyLength"
  - "CA2018"
author: mahdiva
---
# CA2018: The `count` argument to `Buffer.BlockCopy` should specify the number of bytes to copy

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2018                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Reliability](reliability-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | Yes                                    |

## Cause

This rule fires when `Array.Length` is used for the `count` argument of `Buffer.BlockCopy` on arrays whose elements are larger than one byte in size.

## Rule description

When using `Buffer.BlockCopy`, the `count` argument specifies the number of bytes to copy. You should only use `Array.Length` for the `count` argument on arrays whose elements are exactly one byte in size. `byte`, `sbyte`, and `bool` arrays have elements that are one byte in size.

## How to fix violations

Specify the number of bytes that you intend to copy for the `count` argument.

### Example

**Violation**:

```csharp
using System;
class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        int[] src = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
        int[] dst = new int[] {0, 0, 0, 0};

        Buffer.BlockCopy(src, 0, dst, 0, src.Length);
    }
}
```

**Fix**:

If your array's elements are larger than one byte in size, you can multiply the length of the array by the element size to get the number of bytes.

```csharp
using System;
class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        int[] src = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
        int[] dst = new int[] {0, 0, 0, 0};

        Buffer.BlockCopy(src, 0, dst, 0, src.Length * sizeof(int));
    }
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

It is generally NOT safe to suppress a warning from this rule.

## See also

- [Reliability rules](reliability-warnings.md)
