---
title: "CA2000: Dispose objects before losing scope (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2000: Dispose objects before losing scope"
ms.date: 05/14/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2000
- Dispose objects before losing scope
- DisposeObjectsBeforeLosingScope
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2000
- DisposeObjectsBeforeLosingScope
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2000: Dispose objects before losing scope

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2000|
| **Category** |[Reliability](reliability-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A local object of an <xref:System.IDisposable> type is created, but the object is not disposed before all references to the object are out of scope.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

If a disposable object is not explicitly disposed before all references to it are out of scope, the object will be disposed at some indeterminate time when the garbage collector runs the finalizer of the object. Because an exceptional event might occur that will prevent the finalizer of the object from running, the object should be explicitly disposed instead.

## Special cases

Rule CA2000 does not fire for local objects of the following types even if the object is not disposed:

- <xref:System.IO.Stream?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:System.IO.StringReader?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:System.IO.TextReader?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:System.IO.TextWriter?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:System.Resources.IResourceReader?displayProperty=nameWithType>

Passing an object of one of these types to a constructor and then assigning it to a field indicates a *dispose ownership transfer* to the newly constructed type. That is, the newly constructed type is now responsible for disposing of the object. If your code passes an object of one of these types to a constructor, no violation of rule CA2000 occurs even if the object is not disposed before all references to it are out of scope.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, call <xref:System.IDisposable.Dispose%2A> on the object before all references to it are out of scope.

You can use the [`using` statement](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/using-statement.md) ([`Using`](../../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/using-statement.md) in Visual Basic) to wrap objects that implement <xref:System.IDisposable>. Objects that are wrapped in this manner are automatically disposed at the end of the `using` block. However, the following situations should not or cannot be handled with a `using` statement:

- To return a disposable object, the object must be constructed in a `try/finally` block outside of a `using` block.

- Do not initialize members of a disposable object in the constructor of a `using` statement.

- When constructors that are protected by only one exception handler are nested in the [acquisition part of a `using` statement](../../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/using-statement.md), a failure in the outer constructor can result in the object created by the nested constructor never being closed. In the following example, a failure in the <xref:System.IO.StreamReader> constructor can result in the <xref:System.IO.FileStream> object never being closed. CA2000 flags a violation of the rule in this case.

   ```csharp
   using (StreamReader sr = new StreamReader(new FileStream("C:/myfile.txt", FileMode.Create)))
   { ... }
   ```

- Dynamic objects should use a shadow object to implement the dispose pattern of <xref:System.IDisposable> objects.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule unless:

- You've called a method on your object that calls `Dispose`, such as <xref:System.IO.Stream.Close%2A>.
- The method that raised the warning returns an <xref:System.IDisposable> object that wraps your object.
- The allocating method does not have dispose ownership; that is, the responsibility to dispose the object is transferred to another object or wrapper that's created in the method and returned to the caller.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2000
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2000
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2000.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Reliability.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Reliability](reliability-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Related rules

- [CA2213: Disposable fields should be disposed](ca2213.md)

## Example 1

If you're implementing a method that returns a disposable object, use a try/finally block without a catch block to make sure that the object is disposed. By using a try/finally block, you allow exceptions to be raised at the fault point and make sure that object is disposed.

In the OpenPort1 method, the call to open the ISerializable object SerialPort or the call to SomeMethod can fail. A CA2000 warning is raised on this implementation.

In the OpenPort2 method, two SerialPort objects are declared and set to null:

- `tempPort`, which is used to test that the method operations succeed.

- `port`, which is used for the return value of the method.

The `tempPort` is constructed and opened in a `try` block, and any other required work is performed in the same `try` block. At the end of the `try` block, the opened port is assigned to the `port` object that will be returned and the `tempPort` object is set to `null`.

The `finally` block checks the value of `tempPort`. If it is not null, an operation in the method has failed, and `tempPort` is closed to make sure that any resources are released. The returned port object will contain the opened SerialPort object if the operations of the method succeeded, or it will be null if an operation failed.

```csharp
public SerialPort OpenPort1(string portName)
{
   SerialPort port = new SerialPort(portName);
   port.Open();  //CA2000 fires because this might throw
   SomeMethod(); //Other method operations can fail
   return port;
}

public SerialPort OpenPort2(string portName)
{
   SerialPort tempPort = null;
   SerialPort port = null;
   try
   {
      tempPort = new SerialPort(portName);
      tempPort.Open();
      SomeMethod();
      //Add any other methods above this line
      port = tempPort;
      tempPort = null;

   }
   finally
   {
      if (tempPort != null)
      {
         tempPort.Close();
      }
   }
   return port;
}
```

```vb
Public Function OpenPort1(ByVal PortName As String) As SerialPort

   Dim port As New SerialPort(PortName)
   port.Open()    'CA2000 fires because this might throw
   SomeMethod()   'Other method operations can fail
   Return port

End Function

Public Function OpenPort2(ByVal PortName As String) As SerialPort

   Dim tempPort As SerialPort = Nothing
   Dim port As SerialPort = Nothing

   Try
      tempPort = New SerialPort(PortName)
      tempPort.Open()
      SomeMethod()
      'Add any other methods above this line
      port = tempPort
      tempPort = Nothing

   Finally
      If Not tempPort Is Nothing Then
         tempPort.Close()
      End If

   End Try

   Return port

End Function
```

## Example 2

By default, the Visual Basic compiler has all arithmetic operators check for overflow. Therefore, any Visual Basic arithmetic operation might throw an <xref:System.OverflowException>. This could lead to unexpected violations in rules such as CA2000. For example, the following CreateReader1 function will produce a CA2000 violation because the Visual Basic compiler is emitting an overflow checking instruction for the addition that could throw an exception that would cause the StreamReader not to be disposed.

To fix this, you can disable the emitting of overflow checks by the Visual Basic compiler in your project or you can modify your code as in the following CreateReader2 function.

To disable the emitting of overflow checks, right-click the project name in Solution Explorer and then select **Properties**. Select **Compile** > **Advanced Compile Options**, and then check **Remove integer overflow checks**.

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2000-dispose-objects-before-losing-scope-vboverflow_1.vb":::

## See also

- <xref:System.IDisposable>
- [Dispose Pattern](../../../standard/design-guidelines/dispose-pattern.md)
