---
title: "CA2101: Specify marshaling for P-Invoke string arguments (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2101: Specify marshaling for P-Invoke string arguments"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- SpecifyMarshalingForPInvokeStringArguments
- CA2101
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2101
- SpecifyMarshalingForPInvokeStringArguments
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA2101: Specify marshaling for P/Invoke string arguments

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2101|
| **Category** |[Globalization](globalization-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A platform invoke member allows for partially trusted callers, has a string parameter, and does not explicitly marshal the string.

## Rule description

When you convert from Unicode to ANSI, it is possible that not all Unicode characters can be represented in a specific ANSI code page. *Best-fit mapping* tries to solve this problem by substituting a character for the character that cannot be represented. The use of this feature can cause a potential security vulnerability because you cannot control the character that is chosen. For example, malicious code could intentionally create a Unicode string that contains characters that are not found in a particular code page, which are converted to file system special characters such as '..' or '/'. Note also that security checks for special characters frequently occur before the string is converted to ANSI.

Best-fit mapping is the default for the unmanaged conversion, WChar to MByte. Unless you explicitly disable best-fit mapping, your code might contain an exploitable security vulnerability because of this issue.

> [!CAUTION]
> [Code Access Security](/previous-versions/dotnet/framework/code-access-security/code-access-security) (CAS) should not be considered a security boundary.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, explicitly marshal string data types.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## Example

The following example shows a method that violates this rule, and then shows how to fix the violation.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2101.cs" id="snippet1":::
