---
title: "CA2100: Review SQL queries for security vulnerabilities (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2100: Review SQL queries for security vulnerabilities"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- Review SQL queries for security vulnerabilities
- ReviewSqlQueriesForSecurityVulnerabilities
- CA2100
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2100
- ReviewSqlQueriesForSecurityVulnerabilities
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2100: Review SQL queries for security vulnerabilities

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2100|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A method sets the <xref:System.Data.IDbCommand.CommandText%2A?displayProperty=fullName> property by using a string that is built from a string argument to the method.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

This rule assumes that any string, whose value can't be determined at compile time, may contain user input. A SQL command string that is built from user input is vulnerable to SQL injection attacks. In a SQL injection attack, a malicious user supplies input that alters the design of a query in an attempt to damage or gain unauthorized access to the underlying database. Typical techniques include injection of a single quotation mark or apostrophe, which is the SQL literal string delimiter; two dashes, which signifies a SQL comment; and a semicolon, which indicates that a new command follows. If user input must be part of the query, use one of the following, listed in order of effectiveness, to reduce the risk of attack.

- Use a stored procedure.

- Use a parameterized command string.

- Validate the user input for both type and content before you build the command string.

The following .NET types implement the <xref:System.Data.IDbCommand.CommandText%2A> property or provide constructors that set the property by using a string argument.

- <xref:System.Data.Odbc.OdbcCommand?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.Data.Odbc.OdbcDataAdapter?displayProperty=fullName>

- <xref:System.Data.OleDb.OleDbCommand?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.Data.OleDb.OleDbDataAdapter?displayProperty=fullName>

- <xref:System.Data.OracleClient.OracleCommand?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.Data.OracleClient.OracleDataAdapter?displayProperty=fullName>

- <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlCommand?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlDataAdapter?displayProperty=fullName>

In some cases, this rule might not determine a string's value at compile time, even though you can. In those cases, this rule produces false positives when using those strings as SQL commands. The following is an example of such a string.

```csharp
int x = 10;
string query = "SELECT TOP " + x.ToString() + " FROM Table";
```

The same applies when using `ToString()` implicitly.

```csharp
int x = 10;
string query = String.Format("SELECT TOP {0} FROM Table", x);
```

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, use a parameterized query.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the command text does not contain any user input.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2100
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2100
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2100.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Security.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Security](security-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Example

The following example shows a method, `UnsafeQuery`, that violates the rule and a method, `SaferQuery`, that satisfies the rule by using a parameterized command string.

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2100-review-sql-queries-for-security-vulnerabilities_1.vb":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2100.cs" id="snippet1":::

## See also

- [Security Overview](../../../framework/data/adonet/security-overview.md)
