---
title: "CA2119: Seal methods that satisfy private interfaces (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2119: Seal methods that satisfy private interfaces"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- SealMethodsThatSatisfyPrivateInterfaces
- CA2119
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2119
- SealMethodsThatSatisfyPrivateInterfaces
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2119: Seal methods that satisfy private interfaces

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2119|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Breaking|

## Cause

An inheritable public type provides an overridable method implementation of an `internal` (`Friend` in Visual Basic) interface.

## Rule description

Interface methods have public accessibility, which cannot be changed by the implementing type. An internal interface creates a contract that is not intended to be implemented outside the assembly that defines the interface. A public type that implements a method of an internal interface using the `virtual` (`Overridable` in Visual Basic) modifier allows the method to be overridden by a derived type that is outside the assembly. If a second type in the defining assembly calls the method and expects an internal-only contract, behavior might be compromised when, instead, the overridden method in the outside assembly is executed. This creates a security vulnerability.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, prevent the method from being overridden outside the assembly by using one of the following:

- Make the declaring type `sealed` (`NotInheritable` in Visual Basic).

- Change the accessibility of the declaring type to `internal` (`Friend` in Visual Basic).

- Remove all public constructors from the declaring type.

- Implement the method without using the `virtual` modifier.

- Implement the method explicitly.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if, after careful review, no security issues exist that might be exploitable if the method is overridden outside the assembly.

## Example 1

The following example shows a type, `BaseImplementation`, that violates this rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2119.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2119-seal-methods-that-satisfy-private-interfaces_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

## Example 2

The following example exploits the virtual method implementation of the previous example.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2119.cs" id="snippet2":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2119-seal-methods-that-satisfy-private-interfaces_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

## See also

- [Interfaces (C#)](../../../csharp/fundamentals/types/interfaces.md)
- [Interfaces (Visual Basic)](../../../visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/interfaces/index.md)
