docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2247.md, before:

---
title: "CA2247: Argument passed to TaskCompletionSource constructor should be TaskCreationOptions enum instead of TaskContinuationOptions enum (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2247: Argument passed to TaskCompletionSource constructor should be TaskCreationOptions enum instead of TaskContinuationOptions enum"
ms.date: 05/16/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "DoNotCreateTaskCompletionSourceWithWrongArguments"
  - "CA2247"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "DoNotCreateTaskCompletionSourceWithWrongArguments"
  - "CA2247"
author: stephentoub
ms.author: stoub
---
# CA2247: Argument passed to TaskCompletionSource constructor should be TaskCreationOptions enum instead of TaskContinuationOptions enum

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2247|
| **Category** |[Usage](usage-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

Constructing a `System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCompletionSource` with a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value rather than a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value.
Using <xref:System.Object.ReferenceEquals%2A?displayProperty=fullName> method to test one or more value types for equality.

## Rule description

The TaskCompletionSource type has a constructor that accepts a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value, and another constructor that accepts a <xref:System.Object>.  Accidentally passing a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value instead of a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value will result in calling the <xref:System.Object>-based constructor: it will compile and run, but it will not have the intended behavior.

## How to fix violations

To fix the violation, replace the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value with the corresponding <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value.

```csharp
    // Violation
    var tcs = new TaskCompletionSource<int>(TaskContinuationOptions.RunContinuationsAsynchronously);

    // Fixed
    var tcs = new TaskCompletionSource<int>(TaskCreationOptions.RunContinuationsAsynchronously);
```

## When to suppress warnings

A violation of this rule almost always highlights a bug in the calling code, such that the code will not behave as the developer intended, with the TaskCompletionSource effectively ignoring the specified option. The only time it is safe to suppress the warning is if the developer actually intended to pass a boxed <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> as the object state argument to the `TaskCompletionSource`

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2247
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2247
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2247.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Usage.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md)..

## See also

- [Usage rules](usage-warnings.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2247.md, after:

---
title: "CA2247: Argument passed to TaskCompletionSource constructor should be TaskCreationOptions enum instead of TaskContinuationOptions enum (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2247: Argument passed to TaskCompletionSource constructor should be TaskCreationOptions enum instead of TaskContinuationOptions enum"
ms.date: 05/16/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "DoNotCreateTaskCompletionSourceWithWrongArguments"
  - "CA2247"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "DoNotCreateTaskCompletionSourceWithWrongArguments"
  - "CA2247"
author: stephentoub
ms.author: stoub
---
# CA2247: Argument passed to TaskCompletionSource constructor should be TaskCreationOptions enum instead of TaskContinuationOptions enum

|                                     | Value                      |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2247                     |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking               |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | Yes                        |

## Cause

Constructing a `System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCompletionSource` with a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value rather than a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value.
Using <xref:System.Object.ReferenceEquals%2A?displayProperty=fullName> method to test one or more value types for equality.

## Rule description

The TaskCompletionSource type has a constructor that accepts a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value, and another constructor that accepts a <xref:System.Object>.  Accidentally passing a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value instead of a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value will result in calling the <xref:System.Object>-based constructor: it will compile and run, but it will not have the intended behavior.

## How to fix violations

To fix the violation, replace the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value with the corresponding <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskCreationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> enum value.

```csharp
    // Violation
    var tcs = new TaskCompletionSource<int>(TaskContinuationOptions.RunContinuationsAsynchronously);

    // Fixed
    var tcs = new TaskCompletionSource<int>(TaskCreationOptions.RunContinuationsAsynchronously);
```

## When to suppress warnings

A violation of this rule almost always highlights a bug in the calling code, such that the code will not behave as the developer intended, with the TaskCompletionSource effectively ignoring the specified option. The only time it is safe to suppress the warning is if the developer actually intended to pass a boxed <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.TaskContinuationOptions?displayProperty=fullName> as the object state argument to the `TaskCompletionSource`

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2247
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2247
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2247.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Usage.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md)..

## See also

- [Usage rules](usage-warnings.md)
