---
title: "CA2211: Non-constant fields should not be visible (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2211: Non-constant fields should not be visible"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
f1_keywords:
- CA2211
- NonConstantFieldsShouldNotBeVisible
helpviewer_keywords:
- NonConstantFieldsShouldNotBeVisible
- CA2211
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2211: Non-constant fields should not be visible

| Property                            | Value                                     |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2211                                    |
| **Title**                           | Non-constant fields should not be visible |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)                |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Breaking                                  |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 9**    | As suggestion                             |

## Cause

A public or protected static field is not constant nor is it read-only.

## Rule description

Static fields that are neither constants nor read-only are not thread-safe. Access to such a field must be carefully controlled and requires advanced programming techniques for synchronizing access to the class object. Because these are difficult skills to learn, and testing such an object poses its own challenges, static fields are best used to store data that does not change. This rule applies to libraries; applications should not expose any fields.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, make the static field constant or read-only. If this is not possible, redesign the type to use an alternative mechanism such as a thread-safe property that manages thread-safe access to the underlying field. Realize that issues such as lock contention and deadlocks might affect the performance and behavior of the library.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if you are developing an application and therefore have full control over access to the type that contains the static field. Library designers should not suppress a warning from this rule; using non-constant static fields can make using the library difficult for developers to use correctly.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2211
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2211
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2211.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Example

The following example shows a type that violates this rule.

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2211-non-constant-fields-should-not-be-visible_1.vb":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2211.cs" id="snippet1":::
