docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2254.md, before:

---
title: "CA2254: Template should be a static expression"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2254: Template should be a static expression"
ms.date: 11/30/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2254
- LoggerMessageDefineAnalyzer
helpviewer_keywords:
- LoggerMessageDefineAnalyzer
- CA2254
author: Youssef1313
---
# CA2254: Template should be a static expression

|                                     | Value                                |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2254                               |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)           |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                         |

## Cause

A message template passed to a logger API is not constant. This occurs when the template passed uses either string concatenation or interpolation. Instead, the template should be a constant value that represents the log message in _message template format_. For example: `"User {User} logged in from {Address}"`. For more information, see [Log message template formatting](../../../core/extensions/logging.md#log-message-template-formatting).

## Rule description

When performing logging, it's desirable to preserve the structure of the log (including placeholder names) along with the placeholder values. Preserving this information allows for better observability and search in log aggregation and monitoring software.

Preferred:

```csharp
var firstName = "Lorenz";
var lastName = "Otto";

// This tells the logger that there are FirstName and LastName properties
// on the log message, and correlates them with the argument values.
logger.Warning("Person {FirstName} {LastName} encountered an issue", firstName, lastName);
```

Not preferred:

```csharp
// DO NOT DO THIS

var firstName = "Lorenz";
var lastName = "Otto";

// Here, the log template itself is changing, and the association between named placeholders and their values is lost.
logger.Warning("Person " + firstName + " " + lastName + " encountered an issue");

// String interpolation also loses the association between placeholder names and their values.
logger.Warning($"Person {firstName} {lastName} encountered an issue");
```

The logging message template should not vary between calls.

## How to fix violations

Update the message template to be a constant expression. If you're using values directly in the template, refactor them to use named placeholders instead.

```csharp
logger.Warning("Person {FirstName} {LastName} encountered an issue", firstName, lastName);
```

## When to suppress errors

Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## See also

- [Usage warnings](usage-warnings.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2254.md, after:

---
title: "CA2254: Template should be a static expression"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2254: Template should be a static expression"
ms.date: 11/30/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2254
- LoggerMessageDefineAnalyzer
helpviewer_keywords:
- LoggerMessageDefineAnalyzer
- CA2254
author: Youssef1313
---
# CA2254: Template should be a static expression

|                                     | Value                      |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2254                     |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking               |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                         |

## Cause

A message template passed to a logger API is not constant. This occurs when the template passed uses either string concatenation or interpolation. Instead, the template should be a constant value that represents the log message in _message template format_. For example: `"User {User} logged in from {Address}"`. For more information, see [Log message template formatting](../../../core/extensions/logging.md#log-message-template-formatting).

## Rule description

When performing logging, it's desirable to preserve the structure of the log (including placeholder names) along with the placeholder values. Preserving this information allows for better observability and search in log aggregation and monitoring software.

Preferred:

```csharp
var firstName = "Lorenz";
var lastName = "Otto";

// This tells the logger that there are FirstName and LastName properties
// on the log message, and correlates them with the argument values.
logger.Warning("Person {FirstName} {LastName} encountered an issue", firstName, lastName);
```

Not preferred:

```csharp
// DO NOT DO THIS

var firstName = "Lorenz";
var lastName = "Otto";

// Here, the log template itself is changing, and the association between named placeholders and their values is lost.
logger.Warning("Person " + firstName + " " + lastName + " encountered an issue");

// String interpolation also loses the association between placeholder names and their values.
logger.Warning($"Person {firstName} {lastName} encountered an issue");
```

The logging message template should not vary between calls.

## How to fix violations

Update the message template to be a constant expression. If you're using values directly in the template, refactor them to use named placeholders instead.

```csharp
logger.Warning("Person {FirstName} {LastName} encountered an issue", firstName, lastName);
```

## When to suppress errors

Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## See also

- [Usage warnings](usage-warnings.md)
