docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2208.md, before:

---
title: "CA2208: Instantiate argument exceptions correctly (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2208: Instantiate argument exceptions correctly"
ms.date: 05/18/2020
f1_keywords:
- CA2208
- InstantiateArgumentExceptionsCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- InstantiateArgumentExceptionsCorrectly
- CA2208
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2208: Instantiate argument exceptions correctly

| Property                            | Value                                     |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2208                                    |
| **Title**                           | Instantiate argument exceptions correctly |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)                |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                              |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 9**    | As suggestion                             |

## Cause

When a method has a parameter, and it throws an exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException>, it is expected to call a constructor accepting a `paramName` parameter correctly. Possible causes include the following situations:

- A call is made to the default (parameterless) constructor of an exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException> that also has a constructor that accepts a `paramName` parameter.
- An incorrect string argument is passed to a parameterized constructor of an exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException>.
- One of the parameters' names is passed for the `message` argument of the constructor of exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException>.

## Rule description

Instead of calling the default constructor, call one of the constructor overloads that allows a more meaningful exception message to be provided. The exception message should target the developer and clearly explain the error condition and how to correct or avoid the exception.

The signatures of the one and two string constructors of <xref:System.ArgumentException> and its derived types are not consistent with respect to the position `message` and `paramName` parameters. Make sure these constructors are called with the correct string arguments. The signatures are as follows:

- [`ArgumentException(string message)`](<xref:System.ArgumentException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentException(string message, string paramName)`](<xref:System.ArgumentException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentNullException(string paramName)`](<xref:System.ArgumentNullException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentNullException(string paramName, string message)`](<xref:System.ArgumentNullException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentOutOfRangeException(string paramName)`](<xref:System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentOutOfRangeException(string paramName, string message)`](<xref:System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)
- [`DuplicateWaitObjectException(string parameterName)`](<xref:System.DuplicateWaitObjectException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`DuplicateWaitObjectException(string parameterName, string message)`](<xref:System.DuplicateWaitObjectException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, call a constructor that takes a message, a parameter name, or both, and make sure the arguments are proper for the type of <xref:System.ArgumentException> being called.

> [!TIP]
> A code fix is available in Visual Studio for incorrectly positioned parameter names. To use it, position the cursor on the warning row and press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>.</kbd> (period). Choose **Swap the arguments order** from the list of options that's presented.
>
> ![Code fix for CA2208 - swap arguments.](media/ca2208-codefix_swap.png)
>
> If a parameter name instead of a message is passed to the <xref:System.ArgumentException.%23ctor(System.String)> method, the fixer provides the option to switch to the two-argument constructor instead.
>
> ![Code fix for CA2208 - switch to two-argument constructor.](media/ca2208-codefix_null_msg.png)

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule only if a parameterized constructor is called with the correct string arguments.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2208
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2208
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2208.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules it applies to, or for all rules in this category (Design) that it applies to. For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](../includes/config-options/api-surface.md)]

By default, the CA2208 rule applies to all API surfaces (public, internal, and private).

## Example

The following code shows a constructor that incorrectly instantiates an instance of <xref:System.ArgumentNullException>.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2208.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2208-instantiate-argument-exceptions-correctly_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

The following code fixes the previous violation by switching the constructor arguments.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2208.cs" id="snippet2":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2208-instantiate-argument-exceptions-correctly_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

## Related rules

- [CA1507: Use nameof in place of string](ca1507.md)

Commit message:

Document CA2208 paramName requirement and provide guidance for non-parameter exceptions (#49444)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2208.md, after:

---
title: "CA2208: Instantiate argument exceptions correctly (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2208: Instantiate argument exceptions correctly"
ms.date: 10/24/2025
f1_keywords:
- CA2208
- InstantiateArgumentExceptionsCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- InstantiateArgumentExceptionsCorrectly
- CA2208
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2208: Instantiate argument exceptions correctly

| Property                            | Value                                     |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2208                                    |
| **Title**                           | Instantiate argument exceptions correctly |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)                |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                              |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 9**    | As suggestion                             |

## Cause

When a method has a parameter, and it throws an exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException>, it is expected to call a constructor accepting a `paramName` parameter correctly. Possible causes include the following situations:

- A call is made to the default (parameterless) constructor of an exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException> that also has a constructor that accepts a `paramName` parameter.
- An incorrect string argument is passed to a parameterized constructor of an exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException>. For example, the `paramName` argument doesn't match the name of one of the method's parameters.
- A parameter name is passed for the `message` argument of the constructor of an exception type that is, or derives from, <xref:System.ArgumentException>.

## Rule description

Instead of calling the default constructor, call one of the constructor overloads that allows a more meaningful exception message to be provided. The exception message should target the developer and clearly explain the error condition and how to correct or avoid the exception.

The signatures of the one and two string constructors of <xref:System.ArgumentException> and its derived types are not consistent with respect to the position `message` and `paramName` parameters. Make sure these constructors are called with the correct string arguments. The signatures are as follows:

- [`ArgumentException(string message)`](<xref:System.ArgumentException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentException(string message, string paramName)`](<xref:System.ArgumentException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentNullException(string paramName)`](<xref:System.ArgumentNullException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentNullException(string paramName, string message)`](<xref:System.ArgumentNullException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentOutOfRangeException(string paramName)`](<xref:System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`ArgumentOutOfRangeException(string paramName, string message)`](<xref:System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)
- [`DuplicateWaitObjectException(string parameterName)`](<xref:System.DuplicateWaitObjectException.%23ctor(System.String)>)
- [`DuplicateWaitObjectException(string parameterName, string message)`](<xref:System.DuplicateWaitObjectException.%23ctor(System.String,System.String)>)

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, call a constructor that takes a message, a parameter name, or both, and make sure the arguments are proper for the type of <xref:System.ArgumentException> being called.

> [!TIP]
> A code fix is available in Visual Studio for incorrectly positioned parameter names. To use it, position the cursor on the warning row and press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>.</kbd> (period). Choose **Swap the arguments order** from the list of options that's presented.
>
> ![Code fix for CA2208 - swap arguments.](media/ca2208-codefix_swap.png)
>
> If a parameter name instead of a message is passed to the <xref:System.ArgumentException.%23ctor(System.String)> method, the fixer provides the option to switch to the two-argument constructor instead.
>
> ![Code fix for CA2208 - switch to two-argument constructor.](media/ca2208-codefix_null_msg.png)

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule only if a parameterized constructor is called with the correct string arguments.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2208
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2208
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2208.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules it applies to, or for all rules in this category (Design) that it applies to. For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](../includes/config-options/api-surface.md)]

By default, the CA2208 rule applies to all API surfaces (public, internal, and private).

## Example

The following code shows a constructor that incorrectly instantiates an instance of <xref:System.ArgumentNullException>.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2208.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2208-instantiate-argument-exceptions-correctly_1.vb" id="snippet1":::

The following code fixes the previous violation by switching the constructor arguments.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2208.cs" id="snippet2":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2208-instantiate-argument-exceptions-correctly_1.vb" id="snippet2":::

The following code shows a method that incorrectly throws <xref:System.ArgumentNullException> with a `paramName` that doesn't match any of the method's parameters. The rule fires because `description` is a local variable, not a method parameter.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2208.cs" id="snippet3":::
:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2208-instantiate-argument-exceptions-correctly_1.vb" id="snippet3":::

The following code fixes the previous violation by using <xref:System.InvalidOperationException> instead, which is appropriate when an object's state is invalid.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2208.cs" id="snippet4":::
:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2208-instantiate-argument-exceptions-correctly_1.vb" id="snippet4":::

## Related rules

- [CA1507: Use nameof in place of string](ca1507.md)
