docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2226.md, before:

---
title: "CA2226: Operators should have symmetrical overloads (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2226: Operators should have symmetrical overloads"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "OperatorsShouldHaveSymmetricalOverloads"
  - "CA2226"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "OperatorsShouldHaveSymmetricalOverloads"
  - "CA2226"
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA2226: Operators should have symmetrical overloads

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2226|
| **Category** |[Usage](usage-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A type implements the equality or inequality operator and does not implement the opposite operator.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

There are no circumstances where either equality or inequality is applicable to instances of a type, and the opposite operator is undefined. Types typically implement the inequality operator by returning the negated value of the equality operator.

The C# compiler issues an error for violations of this rule.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, implement both the equality and inequality operators, or remove the one that's present.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. If you do, your type will not work in a manner that's consistent with .NET.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Usage](usage-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Related rules

- [CA1046: Do not overload operator equals on reference types](ca1046.md)
- [CA2225: Operator overloads have named alternates](ca2225.md)
- [CA2231: Overload operator equals on overriding ValueType.Equals](ca2231.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2226.md, after:

---
title: "CA2226: Operators should have symmetrical overloads (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2226: Operators should have symmetrical overloads"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "OperatorsShouldHaveSymmetricalOverloads"
  - "CA2226"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "OperatorsShouldHaveSymmetricalOverloads"
  - "CA2226"
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA2226: Operators should have symmetrical overloads

|                                     | Value                      |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2226                     |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking               |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                         |

## Cause

A type implements the equality or inequality operator and does not implement the opposite operator.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

There are no circumstances where either equality or inequality is applicable to instances of a type, and the opposite operator is undefined. Types typically implement the inequality operator by returning the negated value of the equality operator.

The C# compiler issues an error for violations of this rule.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, implement both the equality and inequality operators, or remove the one that's present.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. If you do, your type will not work in a manner that's consistent with .NET.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Usage](usage-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](~/includes/code-analysis/api-surface.md)]

## Related rules

- [CA1046: Do not overload operator equals on reference types](ca1046.md)
- [CA2225: Operator overloads have named alternates](ca2225.md)
- [CA2231: Overload operator equals on overriding ValueType.Equals](ca2231.md)
