---
title: "CA2200: Rethrow to preserve stack details (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2200: Rethrow to preserve stack details"
ms.date: 02/15/2023
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- RethrowToPreserveStackDetails
- CA2200
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2200
- RethrowToPreserveStackDetails
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2200: Rethrow to preserve stack details

|                                     | Value                      |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2200                     |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking               |

## Cause

An exception is rethrown and the exception is explicitly specified in the `throw` statement.

## Rule description

Once an exception is thrown, part of the information it carries is the stack trace. The stack trace is a list of the method call hierarchy that starts with the method that throws the exception and ends with the method that catches the exception. If an exception is rethrown by specifying the exception in the `throw` statement, the stack trace is restarted at the current method and the list of method calls between the original method that threw the exception and the current method is lost. To keep the original stack trace information with the exception, use the `throw` statement without specifying the exception.

If you're rethrowing the exception from somewhere other than the handler (`catch` block), use <xref:System.Runtime.ExceptionServices.ExceptionDispatchInfo.Capture(System.Exception)?displayProperty=nameWithType> to capture the exception in the handler and <xref:System.Runtime.ExceptionServices.ExceptionDispatchInfo.Throw?displayProperty=nameWithType> when you want to rethrow it. For more information, see [Capture exceptions to rethrow later](../../../standard/exceptions/best-practices-for-exceptions.md#capture-exceptions-to-rethrow-later).

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, rethrow the exception without specifying the exception explicitly.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## Example

The following example shows a method, `CatchAndRethrowExplicitly`, which violates the rule and a method, `CatchAndRethrowImplicitly`, which satisfies the rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2200.cs" id="snippet1":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2200-rethrow-to-preserve-stack-details_1.vb":::
