---
title: "CA2245: Do not assign a property to itself (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2245: Do not assign a property to itself"
ms.date: 04/29/2020
f1_keywords:
- CA2245
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2245
author: mavasani
ms.author: mavasani
---
# CA2245: Do not assign a property to itself

| Property                            | Value                              |
|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2245                             |
| **Title**                           | Do not assign a property to itself |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)         |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                       |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                 |

## Cause

A property was accidentally assigned to itself.

## Rule description

C# compiler generates a warning [CS1717: Assignment made to same variable; did you mean to assign something else?](../../../csharp/misc/cs1717.md) when a field, local or parameter symbol is assigned to itself. Such a mistake is common when a local, parameter, or field symbol has a name similar to another symbol in scope. Instead of using different symbols on the left-hand and right-hand side of the assignment, the same symbol was used on both sides. This leads to a redundant assignment of the value to itself and generally indicates a functional bug.

Assigning a property to itself is also a similar functional bug for almost all real world cases. However, in some extreme corner cases, fetching a property value can have side effects and the property's new value is different from the original value. If so, property self-assignment is not redundant and cannot be removed. This prevents the compiler from generating a `CS1717` warning for property self-assignment, without introducing a breaking change for these cases.

Rule `CA2245` aims at filling this gap. It reports the violation for property self-assignment to help fix these functional bugs. For the small set of corner cases where property self-assignment is desirable, `CA2245` violations can be suppressed in source with an appropriate justification comment.

## How to fix violations

To fix violations, use different symbols on the left-hand and the right-hand side of the assignment. For example, the following code snippet shows a violation of the rule and how to fix it:

```csharp
public class C
{
    private int p = 0;
    public int P { get; private set; }

    public void M(int p)
    {
        // CS1717: Accidentally assigned the parameter 'p' to itself.
        p = p;

        // CA2245: Accidentally assigned the property 'P' to itself.
        P = P;
    }
}
```

```csharp
public class C
{
    private int p = 0;
    public int P { get; private set; }

    public void M(int p)
    {
        // No violation, now the parameter is assigned to the field.
        this.p = p;

        // No violation, now the parameter is assigned to the property.
        P = p;
    }
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress violations from this rule if fetching a property value can have side effects and the property's new value is different from the original value. If so, property self-assignment is not redundant. A justification comment should be added to the suppression to document this as expected behavior.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2245
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2245
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2245.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Related rules

- [CS1717: Assignment made to same variable; did you mean to assign something else?](../../../csharp/misc/cs1717.md)
- [CA2011: Do not assign property within its setter](ca2011.md)
- [CA2246: Do not assign a symbol and its member in the same statement](ca2246.md)

## See also

- [Usage rules](usage-warnings.md)
