---
title: "CA2234: Pass System.Uri objects instead of strings (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2234: Pass System.Uri objects instead of strings"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- PassSystemUriObjectsInsteadOfStrings
- CA2234
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2234
- PassSystemUriObjectsInsteadOfStrings
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2234: Pass System.Uri objects instead of strings

|                                     | Value                      |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2234                     |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking               |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                         |

## Cause

A call is made to a method that has a string parameter whose name contains "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url" and the declaring type of the method contains a corresponding method overload that has a <xref:System.Uri?displayProperty=fullName> parameter.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible methods and types, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

A parameter name is split into tokens based on the camel casing convention, and then each token is checked to see whether it equals "uri", "Uri", "urn", "Urn", "url", or "Url". If there is a match, the parameter is assumed to represent a uniform resource identifier (URI). A string representation of a URI is prone to parsing and encoding errors, and can lead to security vulnerabilities. The <xref:System.Uri> class provides these services in a safe and secure manner. When there is a choice between two overloads that differ only regarding the representation of a URI, the user should choose the overload that takes a <xref:System.Uri> argument.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, call the overload that takes the <xref:System.Uri> argument.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the string parameter does not represent a URI.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2234
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2234
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2234.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Include specific API surfaces](#include-specific-api-surfaces)

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Usage](usage-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[api-surface](../includes/api-surface.md)]

## Example

The following example shows a method, `ErrorProne`, that violates the rule and a method, `SaferWay`, that correctly calls the <xref:System.Uri> overload:

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/all-rules/ca2234-pass-system-uri-objects-instead-of-strings_1.vb":::

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2234.cs" id="snippet1":::

## Related rules

- [CA1056: URI properties should not be strings](ca1056.md)
- [CA1054: URI parameters should not be strings](ca1054.md)
- [CA1055: URI return values should not be strings](ca1055.md)
