---
title: "CA2243: Attribute string literals should parse correctly (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2243: Attribute string literals should parse correctly"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2243
- AttributeStringLiteralsShouldParseCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- AttributeStringLiteralsShouldParseCorrectly
- CA2243
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
---
# CA2243: Attribute string literals should parse correctly

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2243|
| **Category** |[Usage](usage-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

An attribute's string literal parameter does not parse correctly for a URL, GUID, or Version.

## Rule description

Since attributes are derived from <xref:System.Attribute?displayProperty=fullName>, and attributes are used at compile time, only constant values can be passed to their constructors. Attribute parameters that must represent URLs, GUIDs, and Versions cannot be typed as <xref:System.Uri?displayProperty=fullName>, <xref:System.Guid?displayProperty=fullName>, and <xref:System.Version?displayProperty=fullName>, because these types cannot be represented as constants. Instead, they must be represented by strings.

Because the parameter is typed as a string, it is possible that an incorrectly formatted parameter could be passed at compile time.

This rule uses a naming heuristic to find parameters that represent a uniform resource identifier (URI), a Globally Unique Identifier (GUID), or a Version, and verifies that the passed value is correct.

## How to fix violations

Change the parameter string to a correctly formed URL, GUID, or Version.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the parameter does not represent a URL, GUID, or Version.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA2243
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA2243
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA2243.severity = none
```

To disable this entire category of rules, set the severity for the category to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Usage.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Example

The following example shows code for the AssemblyFileVersionAttribute that violates this rule.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/all-rules/ca2243.cs" id="snippet1":::

The rule is triggered by the following parameters:

- Parameters that contain 'version' and cannot be parsed to System.Version.

- Parameters that contain 'guid' and cannot be parsed to System.Guid.

- Parameters that contain 'uri', 'urn', or 'url' and cannot be parsed to System.Uri.

## See also

- [CA1054: URI parameters should not be strings](ca1054.md)
