docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2259.md, before:

---
title: "CA2259: Ensure 'ThreadStatic' is only used with static fields"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2259: Ensure 'ThreadStatic' is only used with static fields"
ms.date: 11/04/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2259
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2259
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2259: Ensure `ThreadStatic` is only used with static fields

|                                     | Value                                |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2259                               |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)           |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                         |

## Cause

The <xref:System.ThreadStaticAttribute> attribute is applied to an instance field.

## Rule description

<xref:System.ThreadStaticAttribute>, which indicates that the value of a field is unique for each thread, only affects `static` (`Shared` in Visual Basic) fields. When applied to instance fields, the attribute has no impact on behavior.

## How to fix a violation

To fix a violation, remove the <xref:System.ThreadStaticAttribute> attribute from the field.

## Example

The following code snippet shows a violation of CA2259:

```csharp
class C
{
    [ThreadStatic]
    public int number = 404;
}
```

```vb
Class C
    <ThreadStatic>
    Public number As Integer = 404
End Class
```

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule. However, the `[ThreadStatic]` attribute is a nop and isn't doing what you intended it to do.

## See also

- [Usage warnings](usage-warnings.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2259.md, after:

---
title: "CA2259: Ensure 'ThreadStatic' is only used with static fields"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2259: Ensure 'ThreadStatic' is only used with static fields"
ms.date: 11/04/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2259
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2259
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# CA2259: Ensure `ThreadStatic` is only used with static fields

|                                     | Value                      |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2259                     |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking               |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | Yes                        |

## Cause

The <xref:System.ThreadStaticAttribute> attribute is applied to an instance field.

## Rule description

<xref:System.ThreadStaticAttribute>, which indicates that the value of a field is unique for each thread, only affects `static` (`Shared` in Visual Basic) fields. When applied to instance fields, the attribute has no impact on behavior.

## How to fix a violation

To fix a violation, remove the <xref:System.ThreadStaticAttribute> attribute from the field.

## Example

The following code snippet shows a violation of CA2259:

```csharp
class C
{
    [ThreadStatic]
    public int number = 404;
}
```

```vb
Class C
    <ThreadStatic>
    Public number As Integer = 404
End Class
```

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule. However, the `[ThreadStatic]` attribute is a nop and isn't doing what you intended it to do.

## See also

- [Usage warnings](usage-warnings.md)
