docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2310.md, before:

---
title: "CA2310: Do not use insecure deserializer NetDataContractSerializer (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2310: Do not use insecure deserializer NetDataContractSerializer"
ms.date: 05/01/2019
ms.topic: reference
author: dotpaul
ms.author: paulming
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2310"
  - "DoNotUseInsecureDeserializerNetDataContractSerializer"
---
# CA2310: Do not use insecure deserializer NetDataContractSerializer

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2310|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.NetDataContractSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method was called or referenced.

## Rule description

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-description](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-description.md)]

This rule finds <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.NetDataContractSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method calls or references. If you want to deserialize only when the <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.NetDataContractSerializer.Binder> property is set to restrict types, disable this rule and enable rules [CA2311](ca2311.md) and [CA2312](ca2312.md) instead. Limiting which types can be deserialized can help mitigate against known remote code execution attacks, but your deserialization will still be vulnerable to denial of service attacks.

`NetDataContractSerializer` is insecure and can't be made secure. For more information, see the [BinaryFormatter security guide](../../../standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide.md).

## How to fix violations

[!INCLUDE[fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder](~/includes/code-analysis/fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder.md)]

## When to suppress warnings

`NetDataContractSerializer` is insecure and can't be made secure.

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Runtime.Serialization;

public class ExampleClass
{
    public object MyDeserialize(byte[] bytes)
    {
        NetDataContractSerializer serializer = new NetDataContractSerializer();
        return serializer.Deserialize(new MemoryStream(bytes));
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function MyDeserialize(bytes As Byte()) As Object
        Dim serializer As NetDataContractSerializer = New NetDataContractSerializer()
        Return serializer.Deserialize(New MemoryStream(bytes))
    End Function
End Class
```

## Related rules

[CA2311: Do not deserialize without first setting NetDataContractSerializer.Binder](ca2311.md)

[CA2312: Ensure NetDataContractSerializer.Binder is set before deserializing](ca2312.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2310.md, after:

---
title: "CA2310: Do not use insecure deserializer NetDataContractSerializer (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2310: Do not use insecure deserializer NetDataContractSerializer"
ms.date: 05/01/2019
ms.topic: reference
author: dotpaul
ms.author: paulming
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2310"
  - "DoNotUseInsecureDeserializerNetDataContractSerializer"
---
# CA2310: Do not use insecure deserializer NetDataContractSerializer

|                                     | Value                            |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2310                           |
| **Category**                        | [Security](security-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                     |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                               |

## Cause

A <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.NetDataContractSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method was called or referenced.

## Rule description

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-description](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-description.md)]

This rule finds <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.NetDataContractSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method calls or references. If you want to deserialize only when the <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.NetDataContractSerializer.Binder> property is set to restrict types, disable this rule and enable rules [CA2311](ca2311.md) and [CA2312](ca2312.md) instead. Limiting which types can be deserialized can help mitigate against known remote code execution attacks, but your deserialization will still be vulnerable to denial of service attacks.

`NetDataContractSerializer` is insecure and can't be made secure. For more information, see the [BinaryFormatter security guide](../../../standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide.md).

## How to fix violations

[!INCLUDE[fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder](~/includes/code-analysis/fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder.md)]

## When to suppress warnings

`NetDataContractSerializer` is insecure and can't be made secure.

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Runtime.Serialization;

public class ExampleClass
{
    public object MyDeserialize(byte[] bytes)
    {
        NetDataContractSerializer serializer = new NetDataContractSerializer();
        return serializer.Deserialize(new MemoryStream(bytes));
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function MyDeserialize(bytes As Byte()) As Object
        Dim serializer As NetDataContractSerializer = New NetDataContractSerializer()
        Return serializer.Deserialize(New MemoryStream(bytes))
    End Function
End Class
```

## Related rules

[CA2311: Do not deserialize without first setting NetDataContractSerializer.Binder](ca2311.md)

[CA2312: Ensure NetDataContractSerializer.Binder is set before deserializing](ca2312.md)
