docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2315.md, before:

---
title: "CA2315: Do not use insecure deserializer ObjectStateFormatter (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2315: Do not use insecure deserializer ObjectStateFormatter"
ms.date: 05/01/2019
ms.topic: reference
author: dotpaul
ms.author: paulming
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2315"
  - "DoNotUseInsecureDeserializerObjectStateFormatter"
---
# CA2315: Do not use insecure deserializer ObjectStateFormatter

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2315|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A <xref:System.Web.UI.ObjectStateFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method was called or referenced.

## Rule description

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-description](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-description.md)]

This rule finds <xref:System.Web.UI.ObjectStateFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method calls or references.

## How to fix violations

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-fixes-for-always-insecure-deserializers](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-fixes-for-always-insecure-deserializers.md)]

## When to suppress warnings

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-common-safe-to-suppress](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-common-safe-to-suppress.md)]

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Web.UI;

public class ExampleClass
{
    public object MyDeserialize(byte[] bytes)
    {
        ObjectStateFormatter formatter = new ObjectStateFormatter();
        return formatter.Deserialize(new MemoryStream(bytes));
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Web.UI

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function MyDeserialize(bytes As Byte()) As Object
        Dim formatter As ObjectStateFormatter = New ObjectStateFormatter()
        Return formatter.Deserialize(New MemoryStream(bytes))
    End Function
End Class
```

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2315.md, after:

---
title: "CA2315: Do not use insecure deserializer ObjectStateFormatter (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2315: Do not use insecure deserializer ObjectStateFormatter"
ms.date: 05/01/2019
ms.topic: reference
author: dotpaul
ms.author: paulming
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2315"
  - "DoNotUseInsecureDeserializerObjectStateFormatter"
---
# CA2315: Do not use insecure deserializer ObjectStateFormatter

|                                     | Value                            |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2315                           |
| **Category**                        | [Security](security-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                     |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                               |

## Cause

A <xref:System.Web.UI.ObjectStateFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method was called or referenced.

## Rule description

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-description](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-description.md)]

This rule finds <xref:System.Web.UI.ObjectStateFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method calls or references.

## How to fix violations

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-fixes-for-always-insecure-deserializers](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-fixes-for-always-insecure-deserializers.md)]

## When to suppress warnings

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-common-safe-to-suppress](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-common-safe-to-suppress.md)]

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Web.UI;

public class ExampleClass
{
    public object MyDeserialize(byte[] bytes)
    {
        ObjectStateFormatter formatter = new ObjectStateFormatter();
        return formatter.Deserialize(new MemoryStream(bytes));
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Web.UI

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function MyDeserialize(bytes As Byte()) As Object
        Dim formatter As ObjectStateFormatter = New ObjectStateFormatter()
        Return formatter.Deserialize(New MemoryStream(bytes))
    End Function
End Class
```
