docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2301.md, before:

---
title: "CA2301: Do not call BinaryFormatter.Deserialize without first setting BinaryFormatter.Binder (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2301: Do not call BinaryFormatter.Deserialize without first setting BinaryFormatter.Binder"
ms.date: 07/15/2020
ms.topic: reference
author: dotpaul
ms.author: paulming
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2301"
  - "DoNotCallBinaryFormatterDeserializeWithoutFirstSettingBinaryFormatterBinder"
---
# CA2301: Do not call BinaryFormatter.Deserialize without first setting BinaryFormatter.Binder

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA2301|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

A <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method was called or referenced without the <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter.Binder> property set.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

> [!WARNING]
> Restricting types with a SerializationBinder can't prevent all attacks. For more information, see the [BinaryFormatter security guide](../../../standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide.md).

## Rule description

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-description](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-description.md)]

This rule finds <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method calls or references, when <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> doesn't have its <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter.Binder> set. If you want to disallow any deserialization with <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> regardless of the <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter.Binder> property, disable this rule and [CA2302](ca2302.md), and enable rule [CA2300](ca2300.md).

## How to fix violations

[!INCLUDE[fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder](~/includes/code-analysis/fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder.md)]

## When to suppress warnings

`BinaryFormatter` is insecure and can't be made secure.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Security](security-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary;

[Serializable]
public class BookRecord
{
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public AisleLocation Location { get; set; }
}

[Serializable]
public class AisleLocation
{
    public char Aisle { get; set; }
    public byte Shelf { get; set; }
}

public class ExampleClass
{
    public BookRecord DeserializeBookRecord(byte[] bytes)
    {
        BinaryFormatter formatter = new BinaryFormatter();
        using (MemoryStream ms = new MemoryStream(bytes))
        {
            return (BookRecord) formatter.Deserialize(ms);
        }
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary

<Serializable()>
Public Class BookRecord
    Public Property Title As String
    Public Property Location As AisleLocation
End Class

<Serializable()>
Public Class AisleLocation
    Public Property Aisle As Char
    Public Property Shelf As Byte
End Class

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function DeserializeBookRecord(bytes As Byte()) As BookRecord
        Dim formatter As BinaryFormatter = New BinaryFormatter()
        Using ms As MemoryStream = New MemoryStream(bytes)
            Return CType(formatter.Deserialize(ms), BookRecord)
        End Using
    End Function
End Class
```

### Solution

```csharp
using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Runtime.Serialization;
using System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary;

public class BookRecordSerializationBinder : SerializationBinder
{
    public override Type BindToType(string assemblyName, string typeName)
    {
        // One way to discover expected types is through testing deserialization
        // of **valid** data and logging the types used.

        ////Console.WriteLine($"BindToType('{assemblyName}', '{typeName}')");

        if (typeName == "BookRecord")
        {
            return typeof(BookRecord);
        }
        else if (typeName == "AisleLocation")
        {
            return typeof(AisleLocation);
        }
        else
        {
            throw new ArgumentException("Unexpected type", nameof(typeName));
        }
    }
}

[Serializable]
public class BookRecord
{
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public AisleLocation Location { get; set; }
}

[Serializable]
public class AisleLocation
{
    public char Aisle { get; set; }
    public byte Shelf { get; set; }
}

public class ExampleClass
{
    public BookRecord DeserializeBookRecord(byte[] bytes)
    {
        BinaryFormatter formatter = new BinaryFormatter();
        formatter.Binder = new BookRecordSerializationBinder();
        using (MemoryStream ms = new MemoryStream(bytes))
        {
            return (BookRecord) formatter.Deserialize(ms);
        }
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary

Public Class BookRecordSerializationBinder
    Inherits SerializationBinder

    Public Overrides Function BindToType(assemblyName As String, typeName As String) As Type
        ' One way to discover expected types is through testing deserialization
        ' of **valid** data and logging the types used.

        'Console.WriteLine($"BindToType('{assemblyName}', '{typeName}')")

        If typeName = "BinaryFormatterVB.BookRecord" Then
            Return GetType(BookRecord)
        Else If typeName = "BinaryFormatterVB.AisleLocation" Then
            Return GetType(AisleLocation)
        Else
            Throw New ArgumentException("Unexpected type", NameOf(typeName))
        End If
    End Function
End Class

<Serializable()>
Public Class BookRecord
    Public Property Title As String
    Public Property Location As AisleLocation
End Class

<Serializable()>
Public Class AisleLocation
    Public Property Aisle As Char
    Public Property Shelf As Byte
End Class

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function DeserializeBookRecord(bytes As Byte()) As BookRecord
        Dim formatter As BinaryFormatter = New BinaryFormatter()
        formatter.Binder = New BookRecordSerializationBinder()
        Using ms As MemoryStream = New MemoryStream(bytes)
            Return CType(formatter.Deserialize(ms), BookRecord)
        End Using
    End Function
End Class
```

## Related rules

[CA2300: Do not use insecure deserializer BinaryFormatter](ca2300.md)

[CA2302: Ensure BinaryFormatter.Binder is set before calling BinaryFormatter.Deserialize](ca2302.md)

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2301.md, after:

---
title: "CA2301: Do not call BinaryFormatter.Deserialize without first setting BinaryFormatter.Binder (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2301: Do not call BinaryFormatter.Deserialize without first setting BinaryFormatter.Binder"
ms.date: 07/15/2020
ms.topic: reference
author: dotpaul
ms.author: paulming
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2301"
  - "DoNotCallBinaryFormatterDeserializeWithoutFirstSettingBinaryFormatterBinder"
---
# CA2301: Do not call BinaryFormatter.Deserialize without first setting BinaryFormatter.Binder

|                                     | Value                            |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2301                           |
| **Category**                        | [Security](security-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                     |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                               |

## Cause

A <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method was called or referenced without the <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter.Binder> property set.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

> [!WARNING]
> Restricting types with a SerializationBinder can't prevent all attacks. For more information, see the [BinaryFormatter security guide](../../../standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide.md).

## Rule description

[!INCLUDE[insecure-deserializers-description](~/includes/code-analysis/insecure-deserializers-description.md)]

This rule finds <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter?displayProperty=nameWithType> deserialization method calls or references, when <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> doesn't have its <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter.Binder> set. If you want to disallow any deserialization with <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> regardless of the <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter.Binder> property, disable this rule and [CA2302](ca2302.md), and enable rule [CA2300](ca2300.md).

## How to fix violations

[!INCLUDE[fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder](~/includes/code-analysis/fix-binaryformatter-serializationbinder.md)]

## When to suppress warnings

`BinaryFormatter` is insecure and can't be made secure.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Security](security-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary;

[Serializable]
public class BookRecord
{
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public AisleLocation Location { get; set; }
}

[Serializable]
public class AisleLocation
{
    public char Aisle { get; set; }
    public byte Shelf { get; set; }
}

public class ExampleClass
{
    public BookRecord DeserializeBookRecord(byte[] bytes)
    {
        BinaryFormatter formatter = new BinaryFormatter();
        using (MemoryStream ms = new MemoryStream(bytes))
        {
            return (BookRecord) formatter.Deserialize(ms);
        }
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary

<Serializable()>
Public Class BookRecord
    Public Property Title As String
    Public Property Location As AisleLocation
End Class

<Serializable()>
Public Class AisleLocation
    Public Property Aisle As Char
    Public Property Shelf As Byte
End Class

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function DeserializeBookRecord(bytes As Byte()) As BookRecord
        Dim formatter As BinaryFormatter = New BinaryFormatter()
        Using ms As MemoryStream = New MemoryStream(bytes)
            Return CType(formatter.Deserialize(ms), BookRecord)
        End Using
    End Function
End Class
```

### Solution

```csharp
using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Runtime.Serialization;
using System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary;

public class BookRecordSerializationBinder : SerializationBinder
{
    public override Type BindToType(string assemblyName, string typeName)
    {
        // One way to discover expected types is through testing deserialization
        // of **valid** data and logging the types used.

        ////Console.WriteLine($"BindToType('{assemblyName}', '{typeName}')");

        if (typeName == "BookRecord")
        {
            return typeof(BookRecord);
        }
        else if (typeName == "AisleLocation")
        {
            return typeof(AisleLocation);
        }
        else
        {
            throw new ArgumentException("Unexpected type", nameof(typeName));
        }
    }
}

[Serializable]
public class BookRecord
{
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public AisleLocation Location { get; set; }
}

[Serializable]
public class AisleLocation
{
    public char Aisle { get; set; }
    public byte Shelf { get; set; }
}

public class ExampleClass
{
    public BookRecord DeserializeBookRecord(byte[] bytes)
    {
        BinaryFormatter formatter = new BinaryFormatter();
        formatter.Binder = new BookRecordSerializationBinder();
        using (MemoryStream ms = new MemoryStream(bytes))
        {
            return (BookRecord) formatter.Deserialize(ms);
        }
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System
Imports System.IO
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization
Imports System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary

Public Class BookRecordSerializationBinder
    Inherits SerializationBinder

    Public Overrides Function BindToType(assemblyName As String, typeName As String) As Type
        ' One way to discover expected types is through testing deserialization
        ' of **valid** data and logging the types used.

        'Console.WriteLine($"BindToType('{assemblyName}', '{typeName}')")

        If typeName = "BinaryFormatterVB.BookRecord" Then
            Return GetType(BookRecord)
        Else If typeName = "BinaryFormatterVB.AisleLocation" Then
            Return GetType(AisleLocation)
        Else
            Throw New ArgumentException("Unexpected type", NameOf(typeName))
        End If
    End Function
End Class

<Serializable()>
Public Class BookRecord
    Public Property Title As String
    Public Property Location As AisleLocation
End Class

<Serializable()>
Public Class AisleLocation
    Public Property Aisle As Char
    Public Property Shelf As Byte
End Class

Public Class ExampleClass
    Public Function DeserializeBookRecord(bytes As Byte()) As BookRecord
        Dim formatter As BinaryFormatter = New BinaryFormatter()
        formatter.Binder = New BookRecordSerializationBinder()
        Using ms As MemoryStream = New MemoryStream(bytes)
            Return CType(formatter.Deserialize(ms), BookRecord)
        End Using
    End Function
End Class
```

## Related rules

[CA2300: Do not use insecure deserializer BinaryFormatter](ca2300.md)

[CA2302: Ensure BinaryFormatter.Binder is set before calling BinaryFormatter.Deserialize](ca2302.md)
