---
title: "CA3009: Review code for XML injection vulnerabilities (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA3009: Review code for XML injection vulnerabilities"
ms.date: 07/19/2023
ms.topic: reference
author: dotpaul
ms.author: paulming
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
---
# CA3009: Review code for XML injection vulnerabilities

|                                     | Value                            |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA3009                           |
| **Category**                        | [Security](security-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                     |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                               |

## Cause

Potentially untrusted HTTP request input reaches raw XML output.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

When working with untrusted input, be mindful of XML injection attacks. An attacker can use XML injection to insert special characters into an XML document, making the document invalid XML. Or, an attacker could maliciously insert XML nodes of their choosing.

This rule attempts to find input from HTTP requests reaching a raw XML write.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule can't track data across assemblies. For example, if one assembly reads the HTTP request input and then passes it to another assembly that writes raw XML, this rule won't produce a warning.

> [!NOTE]
> There is a configurable limit to how deep this rule will analyze data flow across method calls. See [Analyzer Configuration](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers/blob/main/docs/Analyzer%20Configuration.md#dataflow-analysis) for how to configure the limit in an EditorConfig file.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation, use one of the following techniques:

- Don't write raw XML. Instead, use methods or properties that XML-encode their input.
- XML-encode input before writing raw XML.
- Validate user input by using sanitizers for primitive type conversion and XML encoding.

## When to suppress warnings

Don't suppress warnings from this rule.

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

In this example, the input is set to the <xref:System.Xml.XmlElement.InnerXml> property of the root element. Given input that contains valid XML, a malicious user can then completely alter the document. Notice that `alice` is no longer an allowed user after the user input is added to the document.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/netfx/ca3009.cs" id="violation" highlight="19":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/netfx/ca3009.vb" id="violation" highlight="19":::

### Solution

To fix this violation, set the input to the <xref:System.Xml.XmlElement.InnerText> property of the root element instead of the <xref:System.Xml.XmlElement.InnerXml> property.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/csharp/netfx/ca3009.cs" id="fix" highlight="43":::

:::code language="vb" source="snippets/vb/netfx/ca3009.vb" id="fix" highlight="43":::

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules it applies to, or for all rules in this category ([Security](security-warnings.md)) that it applies to. For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](../includes/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](../includes/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]
