docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca5367.md, before:

---
title: "CA5367: Do not serialize types with pointer fields (code analysis)"
description: Provides information about code analysis rule CA5367, including causes, how to fix violations, and when to suppress it.
ms.date: 04/30/2020
ms.topic: reference
author: LLLXXXCCC
ms.author: linche
f1_keywords:
  - "CA5367"
---
# CA5367: Do not serialize types with pointer fields

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA5367|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

Pointers are not type safe, which means you cannot guarantee the correctness of the memory they point at. So, serializing types with pointer fields is a security risk, as it may allow an attacker to control the pointer.

## Rule description

This rule checks whether there’s a serializable class with a pointer field or property. Members that can’t be serialized can be a pointer, such as static members or fields marked with <xref:System.NonSerializedAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## How to fix violations

Don't use pointer types for members in a serializable class or don't serialize the members that are pointers.

## When to suppress warnings

Don't take the risk to use pointers in serializable types.

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System;

[Serializable()]
unsafe class TestClassA
{
    private int* pointer;
}
```

### Solution 1

```csharp
using System;

[Serializable()]
unsafe class TestClassA
{
    private int i;
}
```

### Solution 2

```csharp
using System;

[Serializable()]
unsafe class TestClassA
{
    private static int* pointer;
}
```

Commit message:

Add default CA rule enablement info (#35091)

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca5367.md, after:

---
title: "CA5367: Do not serialize types with pointer fields (code analysis)"
description: Provides information about code analysis rule CA5367, including causes, how to fix violations, and when to suppress it.
ms.date: 04/30/2020
ms.topic: reference
author: LLLXXXCCC
ms.author: linche
f1_keywords:
  - "CA5367"
---
# CA5367: Do not serialize types with pointer fields

|                                     | Value                            |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA5367                           |
| **Category**                        | [Security](security-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                     |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                               |

## Cause

Pointers are not type safe, which means you cannot guarantee the correctness of the memory they point at. So, serializing types with pointer fields is a security risk, as it may allow an attacker to control the pointer.

## Rule description

This rule checks whether there’s a serializable class with a pointer field or property. Members that can’t be serialized can be a pointer, such as static members or fields marked with <xref:System.NonSerializedAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## How to fix violations

Don't use pointer types for members in a serializable class or don't serialize the members that are pointers.

## When to suppress warnings

Don't take the risk to use pointers in serializable types.

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

```csharp
using System;

[Serializable()]
unsafe class TestClassA
{
    private int* pointer;
}
```

### Solution 1

```csharp
using System;

[Serializable()]
unsafe class TestClassA
{
    private int i;
}
```

### Solution 2

```csharp
using System;

[Serializable()]
unsafe class TestClassA
{
    private static int* pointer;
}
```
