---
title: "CA5380: Do not add certificates to root store (code analysis)"
description: Provides information about code analysis rule CA5380, including causes, how to fix violations, and when to suppress it.
ms.date: 08/14/2019
ms.topic: reference
author: filipsebesta
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
f1_keywords:
  - "CA5380"
  - "DoNotInstallRootCert"
---
# CA5380: Do not add certificates to root store

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA5380|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

Adding certificates to the operating system's trusted root certificates increases the risk of legitimizing untrusted certification authority.

By default, this rule analyzes the entire codebase, but this is [configurable](#configure-code-to-analyze).

## Rule description

This rule detects code that adds a certificate into the Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store. By default, the Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store is configured with a set of public CAs that has met the requirements of the Microsoft Root Certificate Program. Since all trusted root certification authorities (CA's) can issue certificates for any domain, an attacker can pick a weak or coercible CA that you install by yourself to target for an attack – and a single vulnerable, malicious or coercible CA undermines the security of the entire system.

## How to fix violations

Do not install certificates into the Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store.

## When to suppress warnings

It is not recommended to suppress this rule.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following options to configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on.

- [Exclude specific symbols](#exclude-specific-symbols)
- [Exclude specific types and their derived types](#exclude-specific-types-and-their-derived-types)

You can configure these options for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category ([Security](security-warnings.md)). For more information, see [Code quality rule configuration options](../code-quality-rule-options.md).

[!INCLUDE[excluded-symbol-names](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-symbol-names.md)]

[!INCLUDE[excluded-type-names-with-derived-types](~/includes/code-analysis/excluded-type-names-with-derived-types.md)]

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

The following pseudo-code sample illustrates the pattern detected by this rule.

```csharp
using System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates;

class TestClass
{
    public void TestMethod()
    {
        var storeName = StoreName.Root;
        var x509Store = new X509Store(storeName);
        x509Store.Add(new X509Certificate2());
    }
}
```

### Solution

```csharp
using System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates;

class TestClass
{
    public void TestMethod()
    {
        var storeName = StoreName.My;
        var x509Store = new X509Store(storeName);
        x509Store.Add(new X509Certificate2());
    }
}
```
