---
title: "CA5372: Use XmlReader for XPathDocument (code analysis)"
description: Provides information about code analysis rule CA5372, including causes, how to fix violations, and when to suppress it.
ms.date: 08/14/2019
author: filipsebesta
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
f1_keywords:
  - "CA5372"
  - "UseXmlReaderForXPathDocument"
---
# CA5372: Use XmlReader for XPathDocument

| Property                            | Value                            |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA5372                           |
| **Title**                           | Use XmlReader for XPathDocument  |
| **Category**                        | [Security](security-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                     |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                               |

## Cause

Using the `XPathDocument` class instantiated without an `XmlReader` object can potentially lead to denial of service, information disclosure, and server-side request forgery attacks. These attacks are enabled by untrusted DTD and XML schema processing, which allows for the inclusion of XML bombs and malicious external entities in the XML. Only with `XmlReader` is it possible to disable DTD. Inline XML schema processing as `XmlReader` has the `ProhibitDtd` and `ProcessInlineSchema` property set to false by default in .NET Framework starting in version 4.0. The  other options such as `Stream`, `TextReader`, and `XmlSerializationReader` cannot disable DTD processing.

## Rule description

Processing XML from untrusted data may load dangerous external references, which can be restricted by using an `XmlReader` with a secure resolver or with DTD processing disabled. This rule detects code that uses the `XPathDocument` class and doesn’t take `XmlReader` as a constructor parameter.

## How to fix violations

Use `XPathDocument(XmlReader, *)` constructors.

## When to suppress warnings

You can potentially suppress this warning if the `XPathDocument` object is used to process an XML file that comes from a trusted source and hence cannot be tampered with.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable CA5372
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore CA5372
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.CA5372.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

The following pseudo-code sample illustrates the pattern detected by this rule.
The type of the first parameter of `XPathDocument` is not `XmlReader`.

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Xml.XPath;
...
var obj = new XPathDocument(stream);
```

### Solution

```csharp
using System.Xml;
using System.Xml.XPath;
...
public void TestMethod(XmlReader reader)
{
var obj = new XPathDocument(reader);
}
```
