---
title: "CA5370: Use XmlReader for validating reader (code analysis)"
description: Provides information about code analysis rule CA5370, including causes, how to fix violations, and when to suppress it.
ms.date: 08/14/2019
ms.topic: reference
author: filipsebesta
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
f1_keywords:
  - "CA5370"
  - "UseXMLReaderForValidatingReader"
---
# CA5370: Use XmlReader for validating reader

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA5370|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

Validating untrusted XML input with the `XmlValidatingReader` class instantiated without an `XmlReader` object can potentially lead to denial of service, information disclosure, and server-side request forgery. These attacks are enabled by untrusted DTD and XML schema processing, which allows for the inclusion of XML bombs and malicious external entities in the XML. Only with `XmlReader` is it possible to disable DTD. Inline XML schema processing as `XmlReader` has the `ProhibitDtd` and `ProcessInlineSchema` property set to `false` by default in .NET Framework starting in version 4.0.

## Rule description

Processing untrusted DTD and XML schemas may enable loading dangerous external references. This dangerous loading can be restricted by using an `XmlReader` with a secure resolver or with DTD and XML inline schema processing disabled. This rule detects code that uses the `XmlValidatingReader` class without `XmlReader` as a constructor parameter.

## How to fix violations

- Use `XmlValidatingReader(XmlReader)` with `ProhibitDtd` and `ProcessInlineSchema` properties set to `false`.
- Starting in .NET Framework 2.0, `XmlValidatingReader` is considered obsolete. You can instantiate a validating reader with <xref:System.Xml.XmlReader.Create%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## When to suppress warnings

You can potentially suppress this warning if the `XmlValidatingReader` is always used to validate XML that comes from a trusted source and hence cannot be tampered with.

## Pseudo-code examples

### Violation

The following pseudo-code sample illustrates the pattern detected by this rule.
The type of the first parameter of `XmlValidatingReader.XmlValidatingReader()` is not `XmlReader`.

```csharp
using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Xml;
...
public void TestMethod(Stream xmlFragment, XmlNodeType fragType, XmlParserContext context)
{
    var obj = new XmlValidatingReader(xmlFragment, fragType, context);
}
```

### Solution

```csharp
using System;
using System.Xml;
...
public void TestMethod(XmlReader xmlReader)
{
    var obj = new XmlValidatingReader(xmlReader);
}
```
