docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/il3002.md, before:

---
title: "IL3002: Avoid calling members annotated with 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' when publishing as a single file (code analysis)"
description: "Members annotated with 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' require assembly files to be on disk"
ms.date: 04/15/2021
ms.topic: reference
author: mateoatr
f1_keywords:
  - "IL3002"
  - "RequiresAssemblyFiles"
---
# IL3002: Avoid calling members annotated with 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' when publishing as a single file.

|                                     | Value                                |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | IL3002                               |
| **Category**                        | [SingleFile](singlefile-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                         |

## Cause

When publishing an app as a single file (for example, by setting the `PublishSingleFile` property in a project to `true`), calling members annotated with the `RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute` attribute might be unsafe. These calls can be unsafe because members annotated with this attribute require assembly files to be on disk, and the assemblies embedded in a single-file app are memory loaded.

Example:

```C#
[RequiresAssemblyFiles(Message="Use 'MethodFriendlyToSingleFile' instead", Url="http://help/assemblyfiles")]
void MethodWithAssemblyFilesUsage()
{
}
void TestMethod()
{
// IL3002: Using member 'MethodWithAssemblyFilesUsage' which has 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute'
    // can break functionality when embedded in a single-file app. Use 'MethodFriendlyToSingleFile' instead. http://help/assemblyfiles
    MethodWithAssemblyFilesUsage();
}
```

## How to fix violations

Members annotated with the 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' attribute have a message intended to give useful information to users who are publishing as a single file. Consider adapting existing code to the attribute's message or removing the violating call.

## When to suppress warnings

It's appropriate to suppress the warning when the existing code has been adapted to the recommendation outlined in the 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' attribute's message.

Commit message:

Remove 'safe' and unsafe terminology and instead use 'trim compatible'

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/il3002.md, after:

---
title: "IL3002: Avoid calling members annotated with 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' when publishing as a single file (code analysis)"
description: "Members annotated with 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' require assembly files to be on disk"
ms.date: 04/15/2021
ms.topic: reference
author: mateoatr
f1_keywords:
  - "IL3002"
  - "RequiresAssemblyFiles"
---
# IL3002: Avoid calling members annotated with 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' when publishing as a single file.

|                                     | Value                                |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | IL3002                               |
| **Category**                        | [SingleFile](singlefile-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                         |

## Cause

When publishing an app as a single file (for example, by setting the `PublishSingleFile` property in a project to `true`), calling members annotated with the `RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute` attribute is not trim compatible. These calls is not trim compatible because members annotated with this attribute require assembly files to be on disk, and the assemblies embedded in a single-file app are memory loaded.

Example:

```C#
[RequiresAssemblyFiles(Message="Use 'MethodFriendlyToSingleFile' instead", Url="http://help/assemblyfiles")]
void MethodWithAssemblyFilesUsage()
{
}
void TestMethod()
{
// IL3002: Using member 'MethodWithAssemblyFilesUsage' which has 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute'
    // can break functionality when embedded in a single-file app. Use 'MethodFriendlyToSingleFile' instead. http://help/assemblyfiles
    MethodWithAssemblyFilesUsage();
}
```

## How to fix violations

Members annotated with the 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' attribute have a message intended to give useful information to users who are publishing as a single file. Consider adapting existing code to the attribute's message or removing the violating call.

## When to suppress warnings

It's appropriate to suppress the warning when the existing code has been adapted to the recommendation outlined in the 'RequiresAssemblyFilesAttribute' attribute's message.
