---
title: "Main() Return Values (C# Programming Guide)"
ms.date: 08/02/2017
ms.prod: .net
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-csharp"
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Main method [C#], return values"
ms.assetid: c2f5a1d8-1676-4bea-bc7e-44a97e72d5bc
caps.latest.revision: 20
author: "BillWagner"
ms.author: "wiwagn"
---

# Main() return values (C# Programming Guide)

The `Main` method can return `void`:

[!code-csharp[csProgGuideMain#12](../../../csharp/programming-guide/inside-a-program/codesnippet/CSharp/main-return-values_1.cs)]

It can also return an `int`:

[!code-csharp[csProgGuideMain#13](../../../csharp/programming-guide/inside-a-program/codesnippet/CSharp/main-return-values_2.cs)]

If the return value from `Main` is not used, returning `void` allows for slightly simpler code. However, returning an integer enables the program to communicate status information to other programs or scripts that invoke the executable file. The return value from `Main` is treated as the exit code for the process. The following example shows how the return value from `Main` can be accessed.

## Example

This example uses [.NET Core](../../../core/index.md) command line tools. If you are unfamilar with .NET Core command line tools, you can learn about them in this [Get started topic](../../../core/tutorials/using-with-xplat-cli.md).

Modify the `Main` method in *program.cs* as follows:

[!code-csharp[csProgGuideMain#14](../../../csharp/programming-guide/inside-a-program/codesnippet/CSharp/main-return-values_3.cs)]

When a program is executed in Windows, any value returned from the `Main` function is stored in an environment variable. This environment variable can be retrieved using `ERRORLEVEL` from a batch file, or `$LastExitCode` from powershell.

You can build the application using the [dotnet CLI](../../../core/tools/dotnet.md) `dotnet build` command.

Next, create a Powershell script to run the application and display the result. Paste the following code into a text file and save it as `test.ps1` in the folder that contains the project. Run the powershell script by typing `test.ps1` at the powershell prompt.

Because the code returns zero, the batch file will report success. However, if you change MainReturnValTest.cs to return a non-zero value and then re-compile the program, subsequent execution of the powershell script will report failure.

```powershell
dotnet run
if ($LastExitCode -eq 0) {
    Write-Host "Execution succeeded"
} else
{
    Write-Host "Execution Failed"
}
Write-Host "Return value = " $LastExitCode
```

## Sample output

```txt
Execution succeeded
Return value = 0
```

## Async Main return values

Async Main return values move the boilerplate code necessary for calling asynchronous methods in `Main` to code generated by the compiler. Previously, you would need to write this construct to call asynchronous code and ensure your program ran until the asynchronous operation completed:

```csharp
public static void Main()
{
    AsyncConsoleWork().GetAwaiter().GetResult();
}

private static async Task<int> AsyncConsoleWork()
{
    // Main body here
    return 0;
}
```

Now, this can be replaced by:

[!code-csharp[AsyncMain](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/main-arguments/program.cs#AsyncMain)]

The advantage of the new syntax is that the compiler always generates the correct code.

## Compiler generated code

When the application entry point returns a `Task` or `Task<int>`, the compiler generates a new entry point that calls the entry point method declared in the application code. Assuming that this entry point is called `$GeneratedMain`, the compiler generates the following code for these entry points:

- `static Task Main()` results in the compiler emitting the equivalent of `private static void $GeneratedMain() => Main().GetAwaiter().GetResult();`
- `static Task Main(string[])` results in the compiler emitting the equivalent of `private static void $GeneratedMain(string[] args) => Main(args).GetAwaiter().GetResult();`
- `static Task<int> Main()` results in the compiler emitting the equivalent of `private static int $GeneratedMain() => Main().GetAwaiter().GetResult();`
- `static Task<int> Main(string[])` results in the compiler emitting the equivalent of `private static int $GeneratedMain(string[] args) => Main(args).GetAwaiter().GetResult();`

> [!NOTE]
>If the examples used `async` modifier on the `Main` method, the compiler would generate the same code.

## See also
[C# Programming Guide](../../programming-guide/index.md)
[C# Reference](../index.md)
[Main() and Command-Line Arguments](index.md)
[How to: Display Command Line Arguments](../../programming-guide/main-and-command-args/how-to-display-command-line-arguments.md)
[How to: Access Command-Line Arguments Using foreach](../../programming-guide/main-and-command-args/how-to-access-command-line-arguments-using-foreach.md)
