---
title: "Retrieving Identity or Autonumber Values"
description: Learn how to retrieve identity and autonumber values of primary keys in relational databases, and how to merge new identity values in ADO.NET.
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
ms.assetid: d6b7f9cb-81be-44e1-bb94-56137954876d
---

# Retrieving Identity or Autonumber Values

A primary key in a relational database is a column or combination of columns that always contain unique values. Knowing the primary key value allows you to locate the row that contains it. Relational database engines, such as SQL Server, Oracle, and Microsoft Access/Jet support the creation of automatically incrementing columns that can be designated as primary keys. These values are generated by the server as rows are added to a table. In SQL Server, you set the identity property of a column, in Oracle you create a Sequence, and in Microsoft Access you create an AutoNumber column.

A <xref:System.Data.DataColumn> can also be used to generate automatically incrementing values by setting the <xref:System.Data.DataColumn.AutoIncrement%2A> property to true. However, you might end up with duplicate values in separate instances of a <xref:System.Data.DataTable>, if multiple client applications are independently generating automatically incrementing values. Having the server generate automatically incrementing values eliminates potential conflicts by allowing each user to retrieve the generated value for each inserted row.

During a call to the `Update` method of a `DataAdapter`, the database can send data back to your ADO.NET application as output parameters or as the first returned record of the result set of a SELECT statement executed in the same batch as the INSERT statement. ADO.NET can retrieve these values and update the corresponding columns in the <xref:System.Data.DataRow> being updated.

Some database engines, such as the Microsoft Access Jet database engine, do not support output parameters and cannot process multiple statements in a single batch. When working with the Jet database engine, you can retrieve the new AutoNumber value generated for an inserted row by executing a separate SELECT command in an event handler for the `RowUpdated` event of the `DataAdapter`.

> [!NOTE]
> An alternative to using an auto incrementing value is to use the <xref:System.Guid.NewGuid%2A> method of a <xref:System.Guid> object to generate a GUID, or globally unique identifier, on the client computer that can be copied to the server as each new row is inserted. The `NewGuid` method generates a 16-byte binary value that is created using an algorithm that provides a high probability that no value will be duplicated. In a SQL Server database, a GUID is stored in a `uniqueidentifier` column which SQL Server can automatically generate using the Transact-SQL `NEWID()` function. Using a GUID as a primary key can adversely affect performance. SQL Server provides support for the `NEWSEQUENTIALID()` function, which generates a sequential GUID that is not guaranteed to be globally unique but that can be indexed more efficiently.

## Retrieving SQL Server Identity Column Values

When working with Microsoft SQL Server, you can create a stored procedure with an output parameter to return the identity value for an inserted row. The following table describes the three Transact-SQL functions in SQL Server that can be used to retrieve identity column values.

|Function|Description|
|--------------|-----------------|
|SCOPE_IDENTITY|Returns the last identity value within the current execution scope. SCOPE_IDENTITY is recommended for most scenarios.|
|@@IDENTITY|Contains the last identity value generated in any table in the current session. @@IDENTITY can be affected by triggers and may not return the identity value that you expect.|
|IDENT_CURRENT|Returns the last identity value generated for a specific table in any session and any scope.|

 The following stored procedure demonstrates how to insert a row into the **Categories** table and use an output parameter to return the new identity value generated by the Transact-SQL SCOPE_IDENTITY() function.

```sql
CREATE PROCEDURE dbo.InsertCategory
  @CategoryName nvarchar(15),
  @Identity int OUT
AS
INSERT INTO Categories (CategoryName) VALUES(@CategoryName)
SET @Identity = SCOPE_IDENTITY()
```

The stored procedure can then be specified as the source of the <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlDataAdapter.InsertCommand%2A> of a <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlDataAdapter> object. The <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlCommand.CommandType%2A> property of the <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlDataAdapter.InsertCommand%2A> must be set to <xref:System.Data.CommandType.StoredProcedure>. The identity output is retrieved by creating a <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlParameter> that has a <xref:System.Data.ParameterDirection> of <xref:System.Data.ParameterDirection.Output>. When the `InsertCommand` is processed, the auto-incremented identity value is returned and placed in the **CategoryID** column of the current row if you set the <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlCommand.UpdatedRowSource%2A> property of the insert command to `UpdateRowSource.OutputParameters` or to `UpdateRowSource.Both`.

If your insert command executes a batch that includes both an INSERT statement and a SELECT statement that returns the new identity value, then you can retrieve the new value by setting the `UpdatedRowSource` property of the insert command to `UpdateRowSource.FirstReturnedRecord`.

[!code-csharp[DataWorks SqlClient.RetrieveIdentityStoredProcedure#1](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks SqlClient.RetrieveIdentityStoredProcedure/CS/source.cs#1)]
[!code-vb[DataWorks SqlClient.RetrieveIdentityStoredProcedure#1](../../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks SqlClient.RetrieveIdentityStoredProcedure/VB/source.vb#1)]

## Merging New Identity Values

A common scenario is to call the `GetChanges` method of a `DataTable` to create a copy that contains only changed rows, and to use the new copy when calling the `Update` method of a `DataAdapter`. This is especially useful when you need to marshal the changed rows to a separate component that performs the update. Following the update, the copy can contain new identity values that must then be merged back into the original `DataTable`. The new identity values are likely to be different from the original values in the `DataTable`. To accomplish the merge, the original values of the **AutoIncrement** columns in the copy must be preserved, in order to be able to locate and update existing rows in the original `DataTable`, rather than appending new rows containing the new identity values. However, by default those original values are lost after a call to the `Update` method of a `DataAdapter`, because `AcceptChanges` is implicitly called for each updated `DataRow`.

There are two ways to preserve the original values of a `DataColumn` in a `DataRow` during a `DataAdapter` update:

- The first method of preserving the original values is to set the `AcceptChangesDuringUpdate` property of the `DataAdapter` to `false`. This affects every `DataRow` in the `DataTable` being updated. For more information and a code example, see <xref:System.Data.Common.DataAdapter.AcceptChangesDuringUpdate%2A>.

- The second method is to write code in the `RowUpdated` event handler of the `DataAdapter` to set the <xref:System.Data.Common.RowUpdatedEventArgs.Status%2A> to <xref:System.Data.UpdateStatus.SkipCurrentRow>. The `DataRow` is updated but the original value of each `DataColumn` is preserved. This method enables you to preserve the original values for some rows and not for others. For example, your code can preserve the original values for added rows and not for edited or deleted rows by first checking the <xref:System.Data.Common.RowUpdatedEventArgs.StatementType%2A> and then setting <xref:System.Data.Common.RowUpdatedEventArgs.Status%2A> to <xref:System.Data.UpdateStatus.SkipCurrentRow> only for rows with a `StatementType` of `Insert`.

When either of these methods is used to preserve original values in a `DataRow` during a `DataAdapter` update, ADO.NET performs a series of actions to set the current values of the `DataRow` to new values returned by output parameters or by the first returned row of a result set, while still preserving the original value in each `DataColumn`. First, the `AcceptChanges` method of the `DataRow` is called to preserve the current values as original values, and then the new values are assigned. Following these actions, `DataRows` that had their <xref:System.Data.DataRow.RowState%2A> property set to <xref:System.Data.DataRowState.Added> will have their `RowState` property set to <xref:System.Data.DataRowState.Modified>, which may be unexpected.

How the command results are applied to each <xref:System.Data.DataRow> being updated is determined by the <xref:System.Data.Common.DbCommand.UpdatedRowSource%2A> property of each <xref:System.Data.Common.DbCommand>. This property is set to a value from the `UpdateRowSource` enumeration.

The following table describes how the `UpdateRowSource` enumeration values affect the <xref:System.Data.DataRow.RowState%2A> property of updated rows.

|Member name|Description|
|-----------------|-----------------|
|<xref:System.Data.UpdateRowSource.Both>|`AcceptChanges` is called and both output parameter values and/or the values in the first row of any returned result set are placed in the `DataRow` being updated. If there are no values to apply, the `RowState` will be <xref:System.Data.DataRowState.Unchanged>.|
|<xref:System.Data.UpdateRowSource.FirstReturnedRecord>|If a row was returned, `AcceptChanges` is called and the row is mapped to the changed row in the `DataTable`, setting the `RowState` to `Modified`. If no row is returned, then `AcceptChanges` is not called and the `RowState` remains `Added`.|
|<xref:System.Data.UpdateRowSource.None>|Any returned parameters or rows are ignored. There is no call to `AcceptChanges` and the `RowState` remains `Added`.|
|<xref:System.Data.UpdateRowSource.OutputParameters>|`AcceptChanges` is called and any output parameters are mapped to the changed row in the `DataTable`, setting the `RowState` to `Modified`. If there are no output parameters, the `RowState` will be `Unchanged`.|

### Example

This example demonstrates extracting changed rows from a `DataTable` and using a <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlDataAdapter> to update the data source and retrieve a new identity column value. The <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlDataAdapter.InsertCommand%2A> executes two Transact-SQL statements; the first one is the INSERT statement, and the second one is a SELECT statement that uses the SCOPE_IDENTITY function to retrieve the identity value.

```sql
INSERT INTO dbo.Shippers (CompanyName)
VALUES (@CompanyName);
SELECT ShipperID, CompanyName FROM dbo.Shippers
WHERE ShipperID = SCOPE_IDENTITY();
```

The `UpdatedRowSource` property of the insert command is set to `UpdateRowSource.FirstReturnedRow` and the <xref:System.Data.MissingSchemaAction> property of the `DataAdapter` is set to `MissingSchemaAction.AddWithKey`. The `DataTable` is filled and the code adds a new row to the `DataTable`. The changed rows are then extracted into a new `DataTable`, which is passed to the `DataAdapter`, which then updates the server.

[!code-csharp[DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity#1](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity/CS/source.cs#1)]
[!code-vb[DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity#1](../../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity/VB/source.vb#1)]

The `OnRowUpdated` event handler checks the <xref:System.Data.Common.RowUpdatedEventArgs.StatementType%2A> of the <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlRowUpdatedEventArgs> to determine if the row is an insert. If it is, then the <xref:System.Data.Common.RowUpdatedEventArgs.Status%2A> property is set to <xref:System.Data.UpdateStatus.SkipCurrentRow>. The row is updated, but the original values in the row are preserved. In the main body of the procedure, the <xref:System.Data.DataSet.Merge%2A> method is called to merge the new identity value into the original `DataTable`, and finally `AcceptChanges` is called.

[!code-csharp[DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity#2](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity/CS/source.cs#2)]
[!code-vb[DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity#2](../../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks SqlClient.MergeIdentity/VB/source.vb#2)]

## Retrieving Microsoft Access Autonumber Values

This section includes a sample that shows how to retrieve `Autonumber` values from a Jet 4.0 database. The Jet database engine does not support the execution of multiple statements in a batch or the use of output parameters, so it is not possible to use either of these techniques to return the new `Autonumber` value assigned to an inserted row. However, you can add code to the `RowUpdated` event handler that executes a separate SELECT @@IDENTITY statement to retrieve the new `Autonumber` value.

### Example

Instead of adding schema information using `MissingSchemaAction.AddWithKey`, this example configures a `DataTable` with the correct schema prior to calling the <xref:System.Data.OleDb.OleDbDataAdapter> to fill the `DataTable`. In this case, the **CategoryID** column is configured to decrement the value assigned each inserted row starting from zero, by setting <xref:System.Data.DataColumn.AutoIncrement%2A> to `true`, <xref:System.Data.DataColumn.AutoIncrementSeed%2A> to 0, and <xref:System.Data.DataColumn.AutoIncrementStep%2A> to -1. The code then adds two new rows and uses `GetChanges` to add the changed rows to a new `DataTable` that is passed to the `Update` method.

[!code-csharp[DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge#1](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge/CS/source.cs#1)]
[!code-vb[DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge#1](../../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge/VB/source.vb#1)]

The `RowUpdated` event handler uses the same open <xref:System.Data.OleDb.OleDbConnection> as the `Update` statement of the `OleDbDataAdapter`. It checks the `StatementType` of the <xref:System.Data.OleDb.OleDbRowUpdatedEventArgs> for inserted rows. For each inserted row a new <xref:System.Data.OleDb.OleDbCommand> is created to execute the SELECT @@IDENTITY statement on the connection, returning the new `Autonumber` value, which is placed in the **CategoryID** column of the `DataRow`. The `Status` property is then set to `UpdateStatus.SkipCurrentRow` to suppress the hidden call to `AcceptChanges`. In the main body of the procedure, the `Merge` method is called to merge the two `DataTable` objects, and finally `AcceptChanges` is called.

[!code-csharp[DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge#2](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge/CS/source.cs#2)]
[!code-vb[DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge#2](../../../../samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_ADO.NET/DataWorks OleDb.JetAutonumberMerge/VB/source.vb#2)]

### Retrieving Identity Values

We often set the column as identity when the values in the column must be unique. And sometimes we need the identity value of new data. This sample demonstrates how to retrieve identity values:

- Creates a stored procedure to insert data and return an identity value.

- Executes a command to insert the new data and display the result.

- Uses <xref:System.Data.SqlClient.SqlDataAdapter> to insert new data and display the result.

Before you compile and run the sample, you must create the sample database, using the following script:

```sql
USE [master]
GO

CREATE DATABASE [MySchool]
GO

USE [MySchool]
GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
CREATE procedure [dbo].[CourseExtInfo] @CourseId int
as
select c.CourseID,c.Title,c.Credits,d.Name as DepartmentName
from Course as c left outer join Department as d on c.DepartmentID=d.DepartmentID
where c.CourseID=@CourseId

GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
create procedure [dbo].[DepartmentInfo] @DepartmentId int,@CourseCount int output
as
select @CourseCount=Count(c.CourseID)
from course as c
where c.DepartmentID=@DepartmentId

select d.DepartmentID,d.Name,d.Budget,d.StartDate,d.Administrator
from Department as d
where d.DepartmentID=@DepartmentId

GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
Create PROCEDURE [dbo].[GetDepartmentsOfSpecifiedYear]
@Year int,@BudgetSum money output
AS
BEGIN
        SELECT @BudgetSum=SUM([Budget])
  FROM [MySchool].[dbo].[Department]
  Where YEAR([StartDate])=@Year

SELECT [DepartmentID]
      ,[Name]
      ,[Budget]
      ,[StartDate]
      ,[Administrator]
  FROM [MySchool].[dbo].[Department]
  Where YEAR([StartDate])=@Year

END
GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
CREATE PROCEDURE [dbo].[GradeOfStudent]
-- Add the parameters for the stored procedure here
@CourseTitle nvarchar(100),@FirstName nvarchar(50),
@LastName nvarchar(50),@Grade decimal(3,2) output
AS
BEGIN
select @Grade=Max(Grade)
from [dbo].[StudentGrade] as s join [dbo].[Course] as c on
s.CourseID=c.CourseID join [dbo].[Person] as p on s.StudentID=p.PersonID
where c.Title=@CourseTitle and p.FirstName=@FirstName
and p.LastName= @LastName
END
GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
CREATE PROCEDURE [dbo].[InsertPerson]
-- Add the parameters for the stored procedure here
@FirstName nvarchar(50),@LastName nvarchar(50),
@PersonID int output
AS
BEGIN
    insert [dbo].[Person](LastName,FirstName) Values(@LastName,@FirstName)

    set @PersonID=SCOPE_IDENTITY()
END
Go

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
CREATE TABLE [dbo].[Course]([CourseID] [nvarchar](10) NOT NULL,
[Year] [smallint] NOT NULL,
[Title] [nvarchar](100) NOT NULL,
[Credits] [int] NOT NULL,
[DepartmentID] [int] NOT NULL,
 CONSTRAINT [PK_Course] PRIMARY KEY CLUSTERED
(
[CourseID] ASC,
[Year] ASC
)WITH (PAD_INDEX = OFF, STATISTICS_NORECOMPUTE = OFF, IGNORE_DUP_KEY = OFF, ALLOW_ROW_LOCKS = ON, ALLOW_PAGE_LOCKS = ON) ON [PRIMARY]) ON [PRIMARY]

GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
CREATE TABLE [dbo].[Department]([DepartmentID] [int] IDENTITY(1,1) NOT NULL,
[Name] [nvarchar](50) NOT NULL,
[Budget] [money] NOT NULL,
[StartDate] [datetime] NOT NULL,
[Administrator] [int] NULL,
 CONSTRAINT [PK_Department] PRIMARY KEY CLUSTERED
(
[DepartmentID] ASC
)WITH (PAD_INDEX = OFF, STATISTICS_NORECOMPUTE = OFF, IGNORE_DUP_KEY = OFF, ALLOW_ROW_LOCKS = ON, ALLOW_PAGE_LOCKS = ON) ON [PRIMARY]) ON [PRIMARY]

GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
SET ANSI_PADDING ON
GO
CREATE TABLE [dbo].[Person]([PersonID] [int] IDENTITY(1,1) NOT NULL,
[LastName] [nvarchar](50) NOT NULL,
[FirstName] [nvarchar](50) NOT NULL,
[HireDate] [datetime] NULL,
[EnrollmentDate] [datetime] NULL,
[Picture] [varbinary](max) NULL,
 CONSTRAINT [PK_School.Student] PRIMARY KEY CLUSTERED
(
[PersonID] ASC
)WITH (PAD_INDEX = OFF, STATISTICS_NORECOMPUTE = OFF, IGNORE_DUP_KEY = OFF, ALLOW_ROW_LOCKS = ON, ALLOW_PAGE_LOCKS = ON) ON [PRIMARY]) ON [PRIMARY] TEXTIMAGE_ON [PRIMARY]

GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
CREATE TABLE [dbo].[StudentGrade]([EnrollmentID] [int] IDENTITY(1,1) NOT NULL,
[CourseID] [nvarchar](10) NOT NULL,
[StudentID] [int] NOT NULL,
[Grade] [decimal](3, 2) NOT NULL,
 CONSTRAINT [PK_StudentGrade] PRIMARY KEY CLUSTERED
(
[EnrollmentID] ASC
)WITH (PAD_INDEX = OFF, STATISTICS_NORECOMPUTE = OFF, IGNORE_DUP_KEY = OFF, ALLOW_ROW_LOCKS = ON, ALLOW_PAGE_LOCKS = ON) ON [PRIMARY]) ON [PRIMARY]

GO

SET ANSI_NULLS ON
GO
SET QUOTED_IDENTIFIER ON
GO
create view [dbo].[EnglishCourse]
as
select c.CourseID,c.Title,c.Credits,c.DepartmentID
from Course as c join Department as d on c.DepartmentID=d.DepartmentID
where d.Name=N'English'

GO
INSERT [dbo].[Course] ([CourseID], [Year], [Title], [Credits], [DepartmentID]) VALUES (N'C1045', 2012, N'Calculus', 4, 7)
INSERT [dbo].[Course] ([CourseID], [Year], [Title], [Credits], [DepartmentID]) VALUES (N'C1061', 2012, N'Physics', 4, 1)
INSERT [dbo].[Course] ([CourseID], [Year], [Title], [Credits], [DepartmentID]) VALUES (N'C2021', 2012, N'Composition', 3, 2)
INSERT [dbo].[Course] ([CourseID], [Year], [Title], [Credits], [DepartmentID]) VALUES (N'C2042', 2012, N'Literature', 4, 2)
SET IDENTITY_INSERT [dbo].[Department] ON

INSERT [dbo].[Department] ([DepartmentID], [Name], [Budget], [StartDate], [Administrator]) VALUES (1, N'Engineering', 350000.0000, CAST(0x0000999C00000000 AS DateTime), 2)
INSERT [dbo].[Department] ([DepartmentID], [Name], [Budget], [StartDate], [Administrator]) VALUES (2, N'English', 120000.0000, CAST(0x0000999C00000000 AS DateTime), 6)
INSERT [dbo].[Department] ([DepartmentID], [Name], [Budget], [StartDate], [Administrator]) VALUES (4, N'Economics', 200000.0000, CAST(0x0000999C00000000 AS DateTime), 4)
INSERT [dbo].[Department] ([DepartmentID], [Name], [Budget], [StartDate], [Administrator]) VALUES (7, N'Mathematics', 250024.0000, CAST(0x0000999C00000000 AS DateTime), 3)
SET IDENTITY_INSERT [dbo].[Department] OFF
SET IDENTITY_INSERT [dbo].[Person] ON

INSERT [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID], [LastName], [FirstName], [HireDate], [EnrollmentDate]) VALUES (1, N'Hu', N'Nan', NULL, CAST(0x0000A0BF00000000 AS DateTime))
INSERT [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID], [LastName], [FirstName], [HireDate], [EnrollmentDate]) VALUES (2, N'Norman', N'Laura', NULL, CAST(0x0000A0BF00000000 AS DateTime))
INSERT [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID], [LastName], [FirstName], [HireDate], [EnrollmentDate]) VALUES (3, N'Olivotto', N'Nino', NULL, CAST(0x0000A0BF00000000 AS DateTime))
INSERT [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID], [LastName], [FirstName], [HireDate], [EnrollmentDate]) VALUES (4, N'Anand', N'Arturo', NULL, CAST(0x0000A0BF00000000 AS DateTime))
INSERT [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID], [LastName], [FirstName], [HireDate], [EnrollmentDate]) VALUES (5, N'Jai', N'Damien', NULL, CAST(0x0000A0BF00000000 AS DateTime))
INSERT [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID], [LastName], [FirstName], [HireDate], [EnrollmentDate]) VALUES (6, N'Holt', N'Roger', CAST(0x000097F100000000 AS DateTime), NULL)
INSERT [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID], [LastName], [FirstName], [HireDate], [EnrollmentDate]) VALUES (7, N'Martin', N'Randall', CAST(0x00008B1A00000000 AS DateTime), NULL)
SET IDENTITY_INSERT [dbo].[Person] OFF
SET IDENTITY_INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ON

INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (1, N'C1045', 1, CAST(3.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (2, N'C1045', 2, CAST(3.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (3, N'C1045', 3, CAST(2.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (4, N'C1045', 4, CAST(4.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (5, N'C1045', 5, CAST(3.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (6, N'C1061', 1, CAST(4.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (7, N'C1061', 3, CAST(3.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (8, N'C1061', 4, CAST(2.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (9, N'C1061', 5, CAST(1.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (10, N'C2021', 1, CAST(2.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (11, N'C2021', 2, CAST(3.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (12, N'C2021', 4, CAST(3.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (13, N'C2021', 5, CAST(3.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (14, N'C2042', 1, CAST(2.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (15, N'C2042', 2, CAST(3.50 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (16, N'C2042', 3, CAST(4.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] ([EnrollmentID], [CourseID], [StudentID], [Grade]) VALUES (17, N'C2042', 5, CAST(3.00 AS Decimal(3, 2)))
SET IDENTITY_INSERT [dbo].[StudentGrade] OFF
ALTER TABLE [dbo].[Course]  WITH CHECK ADD  CONSTRAINT [FK_Course_Department] FOREIGN KEY([DepartmentID])
REFERENCES [dbo].[Department] ([DepartmentID])
GO
ALTER TABLE [dbo].[Course] CHECK CONSTRAINT [FK_Course_Department]
GO
ALTER TABLE [dbo].[StudentGrade]  WITH CHECK ADD  CONSTRAINT [FK_StudentGrade_Student] FOREIGN KEY([StudentID])
REFERENCES [dbo].[Person] ([PersonID])
GO
ALTER TABLE [dbo].[StudentGrade] CHECK CONSTRAINT [FK_StudentGrade_Student]
GO
```

The code listing follows:

> [!TIP]
> The code listing refers to an Access database file called *MySchool.mdb*. You can download *MySchool.mdb* from [the MSDN Code Gallery archive](https://github.com/microsoftarchive/msdn-code-gallery-microsoft/tree/21cb9b6bc0da3b234c5854ecac449cb3bd261f29/OneCodeTeam/How%20to%20retrieve%20the%20Identity%20value%20after%20inserting%20a%20data%20using%20ADO.NET/%5BC%23%5D-How%20to%20retrieve%20the%20Identity%20value%20after%20inserting%20a%20data%20using%20ADO.NET/C%23/CSDataRetrieveIdentity/Database).

```csharp
using System;
using System.Data;
using System.Data.OleDb;
using System.Data.SqlClient;

class Program {
   static void Main(string[] args) {
      String SqlDbConnectionString = "Data Source=(local);Initial Catalog=MySchool;Integrated Security=True;Asynchronous Processing=true;";

      InsertPerson(SqlDbConnectionString, "Janice", "Galvin");
      Console.WriteLine();

      InsertPersonInAdapter(SqlDbConnectionString, "Peter", "Krebs");
      Console.WriteLine();

      String oledbConnectionString = "Provider=Microsoft.Jet.OLEDB.4.0; Data Source=Database\\MySchool.mdb";
      InsertPersonInJet4Database(oledbConnectionString, "Janice", "Galvin");
      Console.WriteLine();

      Console.WriteLine("Please press any key to exit.....");
      Console.ReadKey();
   }

   // Using stored procedure to insert a new row and retrieve the identity value
   static void InsertPerson(String connectionString, String firstName, String lastName) {
      String commandText = "dbo.InsertPerson";

      using (SqlConnection conn = new SqlConnection(connectionString)) {
         using (SqlCommand cmd = new SqlCommand(commandText, conn)) {
            cmd.CommandType = CommandType.StoredProcedure;

            cmd.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@FirstName", firstName));
            cmd.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@LastName", lastName));
            SqlParameter personId = new SqlParameter("@PersonID", SqlDbType.Int);
            personId.Direction = ParameterDirection.Output;
            cmd.Parameters.Add(personId);

            conn.Open();
            cmd.ExecuteNonQuery();

            Console.WriteLine("Person Id of new person:{0}", personId.Value);
         }
      }
   }

   // Using stored procedure in adapter to insert new rows and update the identity value.
   static void InsertPersonInAdapter(String connectionString, String firstName, String lastName) {
      String commandText = "dbo.InsertPerson";
      using (SqlConnection conn = new SqlConnection(connectionString)) {
         SqlDataAdapter mySchool = new SqlDataAdapter("Select PersonID,FirstName,LastName from [dbo].[Person]", conn);

         mySchool.InsertCommand = new SqlCommand(commandText, conn);
         mySchool.InsertCommand.CommandType = CommandType.StoredProcedure;

         mySchool.InsertCommand.Parameters.Add(
             new SqlParameter("@FirstName", SqlDbType.NVarChar, 50, "FirstName"));
         mySchool.InsertCommand.Parameters.Add(
             new SqlParameter("@LastName", SqlDbType.NVarChar, 50, "LastName"));

         SqlParameter personId = mySchool.InsertCommand.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@PersonID", SqlDbType.Int, 0, "PersonID"));
         personId.Direction = ParameterDirection.Output;

         DataTable persons = new DataTable();
         mySchool.Fill(persons);

         DataRow newPerson = persons.NewRow();
         newPerson["FirstName"] = firstName;
         newPerson["LastName"] = lastName;
         persons.Rows.Add(newPerson);

         mySchool.Update(persons);
         Console.WriteLine("Show all persons:");
         ShowDataTable(persons, 14);
      }
   }

   /// For a Jet 4.0 database, we need use the single statement and event handler to insert new rows and retrieve the identity value.
   static void InsertPersonInJet4Database(String connectionString, String firstName, String lastName) {
      String commandText = "Insert into Person(FirstName,LastName) Values(?,?)";
      using (OleDbConnection conn = new OleDbConnection(connectionString)) {
         OleDbDataAdapter mySchool = new OleDbDataAdapter("Select PersonID,FirstName,LastName from Person", conn);

         // Create Insert Command
         mySchool.InsertCommand = new OleDbCommand(commandText, conn);
         mySchool.InsertCommand.CommandType = CommandType.Text;

         mySchool.InsertCommand.Parameters.Add(new OleDbParameter("@FirstName", OleDbType.VarChar, 50, "FirstName"));
         mySchool.InsertCommand.Parameters.Add(new OleDbParameter("@LastName", OleDbType.VarChar, 50, "LastName"));
         mySchool.InsertCommand.UpdatedRowSource = UpdateRowSource.Both;

         DataTable persons = CreatePersonsTable();

         mySchool.Fill(persons);

         DataRow newPerson = persons.NewRow();
         newPerson["FirstName"] = firstName;
         newPerson["LastName"] = lastName;
         persons.Rows.Add(newPerson);

         DataTable dataChanges = persons.GetChanges();

         mySchool.RowUpdated += OnRowUpdated;

         mySchool.Update(dataChanges);

         Console.WriteLine("Data before merging:");
         ShowDataTable(persons, 14);
         Console.WriteLine();

         persons.Merge(dataChanges);
         persons.AcceptChanges();

         Console.WriteLine("Data after merging");
         ShowDataTable(persons, 14);
      }
   }

   static void OnRowUpdated(object sender, OleDbRowUpdatedEventArgs e) {
      if (e.StatementType == StatementType.Insert) {
         // Retrieve the identity value
         OleDbCommand cmdNewId = new OleDbCommand("Select @@IDENTITY", e.Command.Connection);
         e.Row["PersonID"] = (Int32)cmdNewId.ExecuteScalar();

         // After the status is changed, the original values in the row are preserved. And the
         // Merge method will be called to merge the new identity value into the original DataTable.
         e.Status = UpdateStatus.SkipCurrentRow;
      }
   }

   // Create the Persons table before filling.
   private static DataTable CreatePersonsTable() {
      DataTable persons = new DataTable();

      DataColumn personId = new DataColumn();
      personId.DataType = Type.GetType("System.Int32");
      personId.ColumnName = "PersonID";
      personId.AutoIncrement = true;
      personId.AutoIncrementSeed = 0;
      personId.AutoIncrementStep = -1;
      persons.Columns.Add(personId);

      DataColumn firstName = new DataColumn();
      firstName.DataType = Type.GetType("System.String");
      firstName.ColumnName = "FirstName";
      persons.Columns.Add(firstName);

      DataColumn lastName = new DataColumn();
      lastName.DataType = Type.GetType("System.String");
      lastName.ColumnName = "LastName";
      persons.Columns.Add(lastName);

      DataColumn[] pkey = { personId };
      persons.PrimaryKey = pkey;

      return persons;
   }

   private static void ShowDataTable(DataTable table, Int32 length) {
      foreach (DataColumn col in table.Columns) {
         Console.Write("{0,-" + length + "}", col.ColumnName);
      }
      Console.WriteLine();

      foreach (DataRow row in table.Rows) {
         foreach (DataColumn col in table.Columns) {
            if (col.DataType.Equals(typeof(DateTime)))
               Console.Write("{0,-" + length + ":d}", row[col]);
            else if (col.DataType.Equals(typeof(Decimal)))
               Console.Write("{0,-" + length + ":C}", row[col]);
            else
               Console.Write("{0,-" + length + "}", row[col]);
         }

         Console.WriteLine();
      }
   }
}
```

## See also

- [Retrieving and Modifying Data in ADO.NET](retrieving-and-modifying-data.md)
- [DataAdapters and DataReaders](dataadapters-and-datareaders.md)
- [Row States and Row Versions](./dataset-datatable-dataview/row-states-and-row-versions.md)
- [AcceptChanges and RejectChanges](./dataset-datatable-dataview/acceptchanges-and-rejectchanges.md)
- [Merging DataSet Contents](./dataset-datatable-dataview/merging-dataset-contents.md)
- [Updating Data Sources with DataAdapters](updating-data-sources-with-dataadapters.md)
- [ADO.NET Overview](ado-net-overview.md)
