---
title: "Add Service Reference in a Portable Subset Project"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
ms.prod: ".net-framework"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "dotnet-clr"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 61ccfe0f-a34b-40ca-8f5e-725fa1b8095e
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "dotnet-bot"
ms.author: "dotnetcontent"
manager: "wpickett"
ms.workload: 
  - "dotnet"
---
# Add Service Reference in a Portable Subset Project
Portable subset projects enable .NET assembly programmers to maintain a single source tree and build system while still supporting multiple .NET implementations (desktop, Silverlight, Windows Phone, and XBOX). Portable subset projects only reference .NET portable libraries which are a .NET framework assembly that can be used on any .NET implementation.  
  
## Add Service Reference Details  
 When adding a service reference in a portable subset project the following restrictions are enforced:  
  
1.  For <xref:System.Xml.Serialization.XmlSerializer>, only literal encodings are allowed. SOAP encodings generate an error during import.  
  
2.  For services that use <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.DataContractSerializer> scenarios, a data contract surrogate is provided to ensure that reused types come only from the portable subset.  
  
3.  Endpoints which rely on bindings not supported in portable libraries (all bindings except <xref:System.ServiceModel.BasicHttpBinding>, <xref:System.ServiceModel.WSHttpBinding> without transaction flow, reliable sessions, or MTOM encoding, and equivalent custom bindings) are ignored.  
  
4.  Message headers are deleted from all message descriptions in all operations before import.  
  
5.  Non-portable attributes <xref:System.ComponentModel.DesignerCategoryAttribute>, <xref:System.SerializableAttribute>, and <xref:System.ServiceModel.TransactionFlowAttribute> are removed from generated client proxy code.  
  
6.  Non-portable properties ProtectionLevel, SessionMode, IsInitiating, IsTerminating are removed from <xref:System.ServiceModel.ServiceContractAttribute>, <xref:System.ServiceModel.OperationContractAttribute>, and <xref:System.ServiceModel.FaultContractAttribute>.  
  
7.  All service operations are generated as asynchronous operations on the client proxy.  
  
8.  Generated client constructors which use non-portable types are removed.  
  
9. A <xref:System.Net.CookieContainer> instance is exposed on the generated client.  
  
10. A comment is inserted at the top of the file identifying the assembly and version of the code generator:`// This code was auto-generated by Microsoft.VisualStudio.Portable.AddServiceReference, version 1.0.0.0`  
  
11. The <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.ISerializable> interface is not supported.  
  
12. Net.Tcp and PollingDuplex bindings are not supported  
  
13. The <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.DataContractSerializer> will always be used for faults.  
  
14. <xref:System.ServiceModel.MessageContractAttribute.IsWrapped%2A> is not supported in portable subset projects.  
  
## See Also  
 [Accessing Services Using a WCF Client](../../../docs/framework/wcf/accessing-services-using-a-wcf-client.md)  
 [Portable Class Library](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/gg597391\(v=vs.110\))
