docs/framework/wcf/wcf-system-requirements.md, before:

---
title: "WCF System Requirements"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Windows Communication Foundation, requirements"
ms.assetid: c43918db-9a36-426c-9e8a-e1bd6688a5b7
---
# WCF System Requirements

Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) is a communication infrastructure that is used to create distributed applications. The following lists the requirements that enable WCF to run.

## System Requirements

WCF is installed by default on [!INCLUDE[wv](../../../includes/wv-md.md)].

WCF can also be installed on [!INCLUDE[wxpsp2](../../../includes/wxpsp2-md.md)], [!INCLUDE[ws2003r2](../../../includes/ws2003r2-md.md)], or [!INCLUDE[ws2003sp1](../../../includes/ws2003sp1-md.md)].

> [!NOTE]
> The Message Queuing (MSMQ) functionality of WCF is supported only on [!INCLUDE[wv](../../../includes/wv-md.md)], [!INCLUDE[ws2003r2](../../../includes/ws2003r2-md.md)], [!INCLUDE[ws2003sp1](../../../includes/ws2003sp1-md.md)], and [!INCLUDE[wxppro](../../../includes/wxppro-md.md)].

## See also

- [Conceptual Overview](../../../docs/framework/wcf/conceptual-overview.md)
- [Basic WCF Programming](../../../docs/framework/wcf/basic-wcf-programming.md)
- [WCF Feature Details](../../../docs/framework/wcf/feature-details/index.md)
- [Guidelines and Best Practices](../../../docs/framework/wcf/guidelines-and-best-practices.md)

Commit message:

Replace two tokens (#14878)
* Replace two tokens

* Delete ws2003r2-md.md

* Delete wxppro-md.md

docs/framework/wcf/wcf-system-requirements.md, after:

---
title: "WCF System Requirements"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Windows Communication Foundation, requirements"
ms.assetid: c43918db-9a36-426c-9e8a-e1bd6688a5b7
---
# WCF System Requirements

Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) is a communication infrastructure that is used to create distributed applications. The following lists the requirements that enable WCF to run.

## System Requirements

WCF is installed by default on [!INCLUDE[wv](../../../includes/wv-md.md)].

WCF can also be installed on [!INCLUDE[wxpsp2](../../../includes/wxpsp2-md.md)], Windows Server 2003 R2, or [!INCLUDE[ws2003sp1](../../../includes/ws2003sp1-md.md)].

> [!NOTE]
> The Message Queuing (MSMQ) functionality of WCF is supported only on [!INCLUDE[wv](../../../includes/wv-md.md)], Windows Server 2003 R2, [!INCLUDE[ws2003sp1](../../../includes/ws2003sp1-md.md)], and Windows XP Professional.

## See also

- [Conceptual Overview](conceptual-overview.md)
- [Basic WCF Programming](basic-wcf-programming.md)
- [WCF Feature Details](./feature-details/index.md)
- [Guidelines and Best Practices](guidelines-and-best-practices.md)
