docs/csharp/how-to/parse-strings-using-split.md, before:

---
title: "Divide strings using String.Split"
description: The Split method returns an array of strings split from a set of delimiters. It's an easy way to extract substrings from a string.
ms.date: 02/18/2025
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "splitting strings [C#]"
  - "Split method [C#]"
  - "strings [C#], splitting"
  - "parse strings"
ms.custom: copilot-scenario-highlight
---
# How to separate strings using String.Split in C\#

The <xref:System.String.Split%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method creates an array of substrings by splitting the input string based on one or more delimiters. This method is often the easiest way to separate a string on word boundaries.

[!INCLUDE[interactive-note](~/includes/csharp-interactive-note.md)]

> [!TIP]
> You can use AI assistance to [split a string](#use-ai-to-split-a-string).

## Split a string into words

The following code splits a common phrase into an array of strings for each word.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet1":::

Every instance of a separator character produces a value in the returned array. Since arrays in C# are zero-indexed, each string in the array is indexed from 0 to the value returned by the <xref:System.Array.Length%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> property minus 1:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet1.5":::

The <xref:System.String.Split*?displayProperty=nameWithType> has many overloads. These overloads customize the behavior for splitting strings:

- You can specify separators as `char` values or `string` values.
- You can specify one separator or multiple separators. If you specify multiple separators, they must all be the same type (either `char` or `string`).
- You can specify the maximum number of substrings to return.
- You can specify if repeated separator characters are ignored, or produce empty substrings in the return value.
- You can specify if leading and trailing whitespace is removed from the returned substrings.

The remaining examples use different overloads to show each of these behaviors.

## Specify multiple separators

<xref:System.String.Split%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> can use multiple separator characters. The following example uses spaces, commas, periods, colons, and tabs as separating characters, which are passed to <xref:System.String.Split%2A> in an array. The loop at the bottom of the code displays each of the words in the returned array.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet3":::

Consecutive instances of any separator produce the empty string in the output array:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet4":::

<xref:System.String.Split%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> can take an array of strings (character sequences that act as separators for parsing the target string, instead of single characters).

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet5":::

## Limit output size

The following example shows how to limit the output to the first four substrings in the source string.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet6":::

## Remove empty substrings

Consecutive separator characters produce the empty string as a value in the returned array. You can see how an empty string is created in the following example, which uses the space character as a separator.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet2":::

This behavior makes it easier for formats like comma-separated values (CSV) files representing tabular data. Consecutive commas represent a blank column.

You can pass an optional <xref:System.StringSplitOptions.RemoveEmptyEntries?displayProperty=nameWithType> parameter to exclude any empty strings in the returned array. For more complicated processing of the returned collection, you can use [LINQ](../linq/index.md) to manipulate the result sequence.

## Trim whitespace

The following example shows the effect of trimming entries:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet7":::

The untrimmed entries have extra whitespace before the numerals.

## Use AI to split a string

You can use AI tools, such as GitHub Copilot, to generate code to split strings using `String.Split` in C#. You can customize the prompt to use strings and delimiters per your requirements.

The following text shows an example prompt for Copilot Chat:

```copilot-prompt
Generate C# code to use Split.String to split a string into substrings.
Input string is "You win some. You lose some." Delimiters are space and period.
Provide example output.
```

GitHub Copilot is powered by AI, so surprises and mistakes are possible. For more information, see [Copilot FAQs](https://aka.ms/copilot-general-use-faqs).

## See also

- [Extract elements from a string](../../standard/base-types/divide-up-strings.md)
- [Strings](../programming-guide/strings/index.md)
- [.NET regular expressions](../../standard/base-types/regular-expressions.md)
- [GitHub Copilot in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-install-and-states)
- [GitHub Copilot in VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview)

Commit message:

add links that reference the 'Explore indexes and ranges' article (#48065)
* add links that reference the 'Explore indexes and ranges' article

* remove unnecessary links

* add more links

docs/csharp/how-to/parse-strings-using-split.md, after:

---
title: "Divide strings using String.Split"
description: The Split method returns an array of strings split from a set of delimiters. It's an easy way to extract substrings from a string.
ms.date: 02/18/2025
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "splitting strings [C#]"
  - "Split method [C#]"
  - "strings [C#], splitting"
  - "parse strings"
ms.custom: copilot-scenario-highlight
---
# How to separate strings using String.Split in C\#

The <xref:System.String.Split%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method creates an array of substrings by splitting the input string based on one or more delimiters. This method is often the easiest way to separate a string on word boundaries.

[!INCLUDE[interactive-note](~/includes/csharp-interactive-note.md)]

> [!TIP]
> You can use AI assistance to [split a string](#use-ai-to-split-a-string).

## Split a string into words

The following code splits a common phrase into an array of strings for each word.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet1":::

Every instance of a separator character produces a value in the returned array. Since arrays in C# are zero-indexed, each string in the array is indexed from 0 to the value returned by the <xref:System.Array.Length%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> property minus 1:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet1.5":::

The <xref:System.String.Split*?displayProperty=nameWithType> has many overloads. These overloads customize the behavior for splitting strings:

- You can specify separators as `char` values or `string` values.
- You can specify one separator or multiple separators. If you specify multiple separators, they must all be the same type (either `char` or `string`).
- You can specify the maximum number of substrings to return.
- You can specify if repeated separator characters are ignored, or produce empty substrings in the return value.
- You can specify if leading and trailing whitespace is removed from the returned substrings.

The remaining examples use different overloads to show each of these behaviors.

For more information about indices, see the [Explore indexes and ranges](../tutorials/ranges-indexes.md) article.

## Specify multiple separators

<xref:System.String.Split%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> can use multiple separator characters. The following example uses spaces, commas, periods, colons, and tabs as separating characters, which are passed to <xref:System.String.Split%2A> in an array. The loop at the bottom of the code displays each of the words in the returned array.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet3":::

Consecutive instances of any separator produce the empty string in the output array:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet4":::

<xref:System.String.Split%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> can take an array of strings (character sequences that act as separators for parsing the target string, instead of single characters).

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet5":::

## Limit output size

The following example shows how to limit the output to the first four substrings in the source string.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet6":::

## Remove empty substrings

Consecutive separator characters produce the empty string as a value in the returned array. You can see how an empty string is created in the following example, which uses the space character as a separator.

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet2":::

This behavior makes it easier for formats like comma-separated values (CSV) files representing tabular data. Consecutive commas represent a blank column.

You can pass an optional <xref:System.StringSplitOptions.RemoveEmptyEntries?displayProperty=nameWithType> parameter to exclude any empty strings in the returned array. For more complicated processing of the returned collection, you can use [LINQ](../linq/index.md) to manipulate the result sequence.

## Trim whitespace

The following example shows the effect of trimming entries:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="./snippets/strings/ParseStringsUsingSplit.cs" id="Snippet7":::

The untrimmed entries have extra whitespace before the numerals.

## Use AI to split a string

You can use AI tools, such as GitHub Copilot, to generate code to split strings using `String.Split` in C#. You can customize the prompt to use strings and delimiters per your requirements.

The following text shows an example prompt for Copilot Chat:

```copilot-prompt
Generate C# code to use Split.String to split a string into substrings.
Input string is "You win some. You lose some." Delimiters are space and period.
Provide example output.
```

GitHub Copilot is powered by AI, so surprises and mistakes are possible. For more information, see [Copilot FAQs](https://aka.ms/copilot-general-use-faqs).

## See also

- [Extract elements from a string](../../standard/base-types/divide-up-strings.md)
- [Strings](../programming-guide/strings/index.md)
- [.NET regular expressions](../../standard/base-types/regular-expressions.md)
- [GitHub Copilot in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-install-and-states)
- [GitHub Copilot in VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview)
