---
title: "First statement of this 'Sub New' must be an explicit call to 'MyBase.New' or 'MyClass.New' because the '&lt;constructorname&gt;' in the base class '&lt;baseclassname&gt;' of '&lt;derivedclassname&gt;' is marked obsolete."
ms.date: 07/20/2015
f1_keywords: 
  - "vbc30919"
  - "bc30919"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "BC30919"
ms.assetid: 437e3204-8ddc-45d3-b9b4-c66d53a61a6d
---
# First statement of this 'Sub New' must be an explicit call to 'MyBase.New' or 'MyClass.New' because the '&lt;constructorname&gt;' in the base class '&lt;baseclassname&gt;' of '&lt;derivedclassname&gt;' is marked obsolete.
A class constructor does not explicitly call a base class constructor, and the implicit base class constructor is marked with the <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute> attribute and the directive to treat it as an error.  
  
 When a derived class constructor does not call a base class constructor, Visual Basic attempts to generate an implicit call to a parameterless base class constructor. If there is no accessible constructor in the base class that can be called without arguments, Visual Basic cannot generate an implicit call. In this case, the required constructor is marked with the <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute> attribute, so Visual Basic cannot call it.  
  
 You can mark any programming element as being no longer in use by applying <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute> to it. If you do this, you can set the attribute's <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute.IsError%2A> property to either `True` or `False`. If you set it to `True`, the compiler treats an attempt to use the element as an error. If you set it to `False`, or let it default to `False`, the compiler issues a warning if there is an attempt to use the element.  
  
 **Error ID:** BC30919  
  
## To correct this error  
  
-   Include a call to `MyBase.New()` or `MyClass.New()` as the first statement of the `Sub New` in the derived class.