---
title: "Class &#39;&lt;classname&gt;&#39; must declare a &#39;Sub New&#39; because the &#39;&lt;constructorname&gt;&#39; in its base class &#39;&lt;baseclassname&gt;&#39; is marked obsolete: &#39;&lt;errormessage&gt;&#39;"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
ms.prod: .net
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-visual-basic"
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "bc30918"
  - "vbc30918"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "BC30918"
ms.assetid: 4879254c-4b03-4416-a4a3-e9f6b5d92a1a
caps.latest.revision: 11
author: dotnet-bot
ms.author: dotnetcontent
---
# Class &#39;&lt;classname&gt;&#39; must declare a &#39;Sub New&#39; because the &#39;&lt;constructorname&gt;&#39; in its base class &#39;&lt;baseclassname&gt;&#39; is marked obsolete: &#39;&lt;errormessage&gt;&#39;
A class declaration does not include a constructor, and the base class constructor is marked with the <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute> attribute and the directive to treat it as an error.  
  
 When a derived class does not declare a constructor, [!INCLUDE[vbprvb](~/includes/vbprvb-md.md)] attempts to generate an implicit parameterless constructor that calls `MyBase.New()`. If there is no accessible constructor in the base class that can be called without arguments, [!INCLUDE[vbprvb](~/includes/vbprvb-md.md)] cannot generate an implicit constructor. In this case, the required constructor is marked with the <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute> attribute, so [!INCLUDE[vbprvb](~/includes/vbprvb-md.md)] cannot call it.  
  
 You can mark any programming element as being no longer in use by applying <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute> to it. If you do this, you can set the attribute's <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute.IsError%2A> property to either `True` or `False`. If you set it to `True`, the compiler treats an attempt to use the element as an error. If you set it to `False`, or let it default to `False`, the compiler issues a warning if there is an attempt to use the element.  
  
 **Error ID:** BC30918  
  
## To correct this error  
  
1.  Examine the quoted error message and take appropriate action.  
  
2.  Use `Sub New` to declare a constructor in the derived class.