---
title: "Type parameter '<typeparametername1>' must have either a 'New' constraint or a 'Structure' constraint to satisfy the 'New' constraint for type parameter '<typeparametername2>'"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
f1_keywords:
  - "vbc32084"
  - "BC32084"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "BC32084"
ms.assetid: a7ff58d3-8c67-40e4-9fd8-92cc00524c22
---
# Type parameter '\<typeparametername1>' must have either a 'New' constraint or a 'Structure' constraint to satisfy the 'New' constraint for type parameter '\<typeparametername2>'

A statement constructs a generic type passing a type parameter that is not constrained to satisfy a `New` constraint.

The `New` constraint means that the type argument supplied to that type parameter must expose a parameterless constructor accessible to the code that creates objects from it. All value types have parameterless constructors, but not all reference types do. Therefore the `Structure` constraint satisfies the `New` constraint, but the `Class` constraint, or a class or interface name, does not.

The following statements can generate this error.

```vb
Public Class c1(Of t As New)
End Class
Public Class c2(Of u)
    Public testObject As New c1(Of u)
End Class
```

When class `c2` creates an object from `c1`, type parameter `u` does not satisfy the `New` constraint on type parameter `t`.

**Error ID:** BC32084

## To correct this error

- If the type parameter to be passed to the generic type can satisfy the `Structure` or `New` constraint, then add the appropriate constraint to its definition.

  ```vb
  Public Class c2(Of u As Structure)
  ```

- If the type parameter cannot satisfy the `Structure` or `New` constraint, then do not pass it to the generic type. You must pass something else as the type argument.

## See also

- [Generic Types in Visual Basic](../../visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/data-types/generic-types.md)
- [New Operator](../../visual-basic/language-reference/operators/new-operator.md)
- [Structure (Visual Basic)](../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/structure-statement.md)
- [Class (Visual Basic)](../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/class-statement.md)
- [Value Types and Reference Types](../../visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/data-types/value-types-and-reference-types.md)
