---
title: "Type &#39;&lt;typename&gt;&#39; must define operator &#39;&lt;operator&gt;&#39; to be used in a &#39;For&#39; statement"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
ms.prod: .net
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-visual-basic"
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "vbc33038"
  - "BC33038"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "BC33038"
ms.assetid: b1c9d87f-80f9-4c8c-8908-f8400b9fe4c5
caps.latest.revision: 8
author: dotnet-bot
ms.author: dotnetcontent
---
# Type &#39;&lt;typename&gt;&#39; must define operator &#39;&lt;operator&gt;&#39; to be used in a &#39;For&#39; statement
A `For` loop specifies a counter variable of a type that does not support a required operator.  
  
 The counter variable in a `For` loop can be of any data type that supports all of the following operators:  
  
-   Greater than or equal (`>=`)  
  
-   Less than or equal (`<=`)  
  
-   Addition (`+`)  
  
-   Subtraction (`-`)  
  
 If you use a numeric data type for the counter variable, all the preceding operators are supported. If you use a user-defined class or structure, you must define all the preceding operators on that class or structure.  
  
 Note also that the data types of the `start`, `end`, and `step` expressions in the `For` statement must widen to the data type of the counter variable. If the counter variable is a user-defined class or structure and the `start`, `end`, or `step` expression is of a different type, you must define the `CType` conversion operator to accomplish the necessary conversion.  
  
 **Error ID:** BC33038  
  
## To correct this error  
  
1.  Make sure the spelling of the counter-variable data type is correct.  
  
2.  If you are using a user-defined class or structure for the counter variable, define all the required operators on that class or structure.  
  
3.  Depending on the data types of the `start`, `end`, and `step` expressions, you might have to define one or more `CType` conversion operators to convert them to the counter variable data type.  
  
## See Also  
 [For...Next Statement](../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/for-next-statement.md)  
 [Operator Procedures](../../visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/procedures/operator-procedures.md)  
 [Operator Statement](../../visual-basic/language-reference/statements/operator-statement.md)  
 [How to: Define an Operator](../../visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/procedures/how-to-define-an-operator.md)  
 [How to: Define a Conversion Operator](../../visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/procedures/how-to-define-a-conversion-operator.md)  
 [CType Function](../../visual-basic/language-reference/functions/ctype-function.md)
