---
title: "&#39;&lt;classname&gt;&#39; is not CLS-compliant because it derives from &#39;&lt;baseclassname&gt;&#39;, which is not CLS-compliant"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
ms.prod: .net
ms.technology: 
  - "devlang-visual-basic"
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "vbc40026"
  - "bc40026"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "BC40026"
ms.assetid: debcd5e4-75e7-4b14-a6cc-18f1009fe52c
caps.latest.revision: 12
author: dotnet-bot
ms.author: dotnetcontent
---
# &#39;&lt;classname&gt;&#39; is not CLS-compliant because it derives from &#39;&lt;baseclassname&gt;&#39;, which is not CLS-compliant
A class or interface is marked as `<CLSCompliant(True)>` when it derives from or implements a type that is marked as `<CLSCompliant(False)>` or is not marked.  
  
 For a class or interface to be compliant with the [Language Independence and Language-Independent Components](../../standard/language-independence-and-language-independent-components.md) (CLS), its entire inheritance hierarchy must be compliant. That means every type from which it inherits, directly or indirectly, must be compliant. Similarly, if a class implements one or more interfaces, they must all be compliant throughout their inheritance hierarchies.  
  
 When you apply the <xref:System.CLSCompliantAttribute> to a programming element, you set the attribute's `isCompliant` parameter to either `True` or `False` to indicate compliance or noncompliance. There is no default for this parameter, and you must supply a value.  
  
 If you do not apply the <xref:System.CLSCompliantAttribute> to an element, it is considered to be noncompliant.  
  
 By default, this message is a warning. For information on hiding warnings or treating warnings as errors, see [Configuring Warnings in Visual Basic](/visualstudio/ide/configuring-warnings-in-visual-basic).  
  
 **Error ID:** BC40026  
  
## To correct this error  
  
-   If you require CLS compliance, define this type within a different inheritance hierarchy or implementation scheme.  
  
-   If you require that this type remain within its current inheritance hierarchy or implementation scheme, remove the <xref:System.CLSCompliantAttribute> from its definition or mark it as `<CLSCompliant(False)>`.