docs/standard/serialization/system-text-json/supported-collection-types.md, before:

---
title: "Supported collection types in System.Text.Json"
description: "Learn which collection types are supported for serialization by the APIs in the System.Text.Json namespace."
ms.date: 02/01/2021
no-loc: [System.Text.Json]
ms.topic: reference
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON serialization"
  - "serializing objects"
  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
---

# Supported collection types in System.Text.Json

This article gives an overview of which collections are supported for serialization and deserialization. <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> supports a collection type for serialization if it:

* Derives from <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IAsyncEnumerable%601>
* Contains elements that are serializable.

The serializer calls the <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable.GetEnumerator> method and writes the elements.

Deserialization is more complicated and is not supported for some collection types.

The following sections are organized by namespace and show which types are supported for serialization and deserialization.

## System.Array namespace

| Type                                                                                            | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| [Single-dimensional arrays](../../../csharp/programming-guide/arrays/single-dimensional-arrays.md) | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| [Multi-dimensional arrays](../../../csharp/programming-guide/arrays/multidimensional-arrays.md)    | ❌           | ❌              |
| [Jagged arrays](../../../csharp/programming-guide/arrays/jagged-arrays.md)                         | ✔️           | ✔️              |

## System.Collections namespace

| Type                                      | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.ArrayList>       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.BitArray>        | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.DictionaryEntry> | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Hashtable>       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.ICollection>     | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary>     | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable>     | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.IList>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Queue>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.SortedList>      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Stack>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |

## System.Collections.Generic namespace

| Type                                                      | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602> \*       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.HashSet%601>             | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IAsyncEnumerable%601> \*\* | ✔️         | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601>         | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IDictionary%602> \*      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable%601>         | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IList%601>               | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IReadOnlyCollection%601> | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IReadOnlyDictionary%602> \* | ✔️        | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IReadOnlyList%601>       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601>                | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.KeyValuePair%602>        | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.LinkedList%601>          | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.LinkedListNode%601>      | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601>                | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Queue%601>               | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedDictionary%602> \* | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedList%602> \*       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedSet%601>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Stack%601>               | ✔️           | ✔️              |

\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

\*\* See the following section on `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`.

### IAsyncEnumerable\<T>

The following examples use streams as a representation of any async source of data. The source could be files on a local machine, or results from a database query or web service API call.

#### Stream serialization

`System.Text.Json` supports serializing <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IAsyncEnumerable%601> values as JSON arrays, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/supported-collection-types/csharp/IAsyncEnumerableSerialize.cs" highlight="15":::

`IAsyncEnumerable<T>` values are only supported by the asynchronous serialization methods, such as <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.SerializeAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

#### Stream deserialization

The `DeserializeAsyncEnumerable` method supports streaming deserialization, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/supported-collection-types/csharp/IAsyncEnumerableDeserialize.cs" highlight="11":::

The `DeserializeAsyncEnumerable` method only supports reading from root-level JSON arrays.

The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.DeserializeAsync%2A> method supports `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`, but its signature doesn't allow streaming. It returns the final result as a single value, as shown in the following example.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/supported-collection-types/csharp/IAsyncEnumerableDeserializeNonStreaming.cs" highlight="16":::

In this example, the deserializer buffers all `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` contents in memory before returning the deserialized object. This behavior is necessary because the deserializer needs to read the entire JSON payload before returning a result.

## System.Collections.Immutable namespace

| Type                                                              | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableDictionary%602> \*\* | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableList%601>            | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableQueue%601>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601>             | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableStack%601> \*        | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableArray%601>            | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableDictionary%602> \*\*  | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableHashSet%601>          | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableQueue%601>            | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableSortedDictionary%602> \*\* | ✔️      | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableSortedSet%601>        | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableStack%601> \*         | ✔️           | ✔️              |

\* See [Support round trip for Stack\<T>](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

\*\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

## System.Collections.Specialized namespace

| Type                                                      | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.BitVector32>         | ✔️           | ❌\*            |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.HybridDictionary>    | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.IOrderedDictionary>  | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.ListDictionary>      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.NameValueCollection> | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.StringCollection>    | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.StringDictionary>    | ✔️           | ❌              |

\* When <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.BitVector32> is deserialized, the <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.BitVector32.Data> property is skipped because it doesn't have a public setter. No exception is thrown.

## System.Collections.Concurrent namespace

| Type                                                          | Serialization | Deserialization |
|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.BlockingCollection%601>   | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentBag%601>        | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentDictionary%602> \*\* | ✔️      | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentQueue%601>      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentStack%601> \*   | ✔️           | ✔️              |

\* See [Support round trip for Stack\<T>](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

\*\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

## System.Collections.ObjectModel namespace

| Type                                                           | Serialization | Deserialization |
|----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.Collection%601>           | ✔️            | ✔️             |
| [KeyedCollection\<string, TValue>](xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.KeyedCollection%602) \* |✔️|❌|
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ObservableCollection%601> | ✔️            | ✔️             |
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyCollection%601>   | ✔️            | ❌             |
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyDictionary%602>   | ✔️            | ❌             |
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyObservableCollection%601> | ✔️    | ❌             |

\* Non-`string` keys are not supported.

## Custom collections

Any collection type that isn't in one of the preceding namespaces is considered a custom collection. Such types include user-defined types and types defined by ASP.NET Core. For example, <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Primitives?displayProperty=fullName> is in this group.

All custom collections (everything that derives from `IEnumerable`) are supported for serialization, as long as their element types are supported.

### Custom collections with deserialization support

A custom collection is supported for deserialization if it:

* Isn't an interface or abstract.
* Has a parameterless constructor.
* Contains element types that are supported by <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>.
* Implements or inherits one or more of the following interfaces or classes:
  * <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentQueue%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentStack%601> \*
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IDictionary%602> \*\*
  * <xref:System.Collections.IList>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IList%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Queue>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Queue%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Stack> \*
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Stack%601> \*

  \* See [Support round trip for Stack\<T>](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

  \*\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

### Custom collections with known issues

There are known issues with the following custom collections:

* <xref:System.Dynamic.ExpandoObject>: See [dotnet/runtime#29690](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/29690).
* <xref:System.Dynamic.DynamicObject>: See [dotnet/runtime#1808](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1808).
* <xref:System.Data.DataTable>: See [dotnet/docs#21366](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues/21366).
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.FormFile?displayProperty=fullName>: See [dotnet/runtime#1559](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1559).
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormCollection?displayProperty=fullName>: See [dotnet/runtime#1559](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1559).

For more information about known issues, see the [open issues in System.Text.Json](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aarea-System.Text.Json).

## Supported key types

Supported types for the keys of `Dictionary` and `SortedList` types include the following:

* `Boolean`
* `Byte`
* `DateTime`
* `DateTimeOffset`
* `Decimal`
* `Double`
* `Enum`
* `Guid`
* `Int16`
* `Int32`
* `Int64`
* `Object` (Only on serialization and if the runtime type is one of the supported types in this list.)
* `SByte`
* `Single`
* `String`
* `UInt16`
* `UInt32`
* `UInt64`

## System.Data namespace

There are no built-in converters for <xref:System.Data.DataSet>, <xref:System.Data.DataTable>, and related types in the <xref:System.Data> namespace. Deserializing these types from untrusted input is not safe, as explained in [the security guidance](../../../framework/data/adonet/dataset-datatable-dataview/security-guidance.md#safety-with-regard-to-untrusted-input). However, you can write a custom converter to support these types. For sample custom converter code that serializes and deserializes a `DataTable`, see [RoundtripDataTable.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/blob/main/docs/standard/serialization/system-text-json/snippets/how-to/csharp/RoundtripDataTable.cs).

## See also

* [System.Text.Json overview](overview.md)
* [System.Text.Json API reference](xref:System.Text.Json)
* [System.Text.Json.Serialization API reference](xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization)

Commit message:

Footnotes for Stack<T> and non-generic Stack regarding round-tripping
Added footnotes regarding stack round-tripping for System.Collections.Stack and System.Collections.Generic.Stack<T> in the same manner as the already present footnotes for ImmutableStack and ConcurrentStack.

Personally, the footnote for the non-generic System.Collections.Stack feels a bit awkward to me, as the referred chapter about stack round-tripping is featuring the generic Stack<T> in its title.

docs/standard/serialization/system-text-json/supported-collection-types.md, after:

---
title: "Supported collection types in System.Text.Json"
description: "Learn which collection types are supported for serialization by the APIs in the System.Text.Json namespace."
ms.date: 02/01/2021
no-loc: [System.Text.Json]
ms.topic: reference
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON serialization"
  - "serializing objects"
  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
---

# Supported collection types in System.Text.Json

This article gives an overview of which collections are supported for serialization and deserialization. <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> supports a collection type for serialization if it:

* Derives from <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IAsyncEnumerable%601>
* Contains elements that are serializable.

The serializer calls the <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable.GetEnumerator> method and writes the elements.

Deserialization is more complicated and is not supported for some collection types.

The following sections are organized by namespace and show which types are supported for serialization and deserialization.

## System.Array namespace

| Type                                                                                            | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| [Single-dimensional arrays](../../../csharp/programming-guide/arrays/single-dimensional-arrays.md) | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| [Multi-dimensional arrays](../../../csharp/programming-guide/arrays/multidimensional-arrays.md)    | ❌           | ❌              |
| [Jagged arrays](../../../csharp/programming-guide/arrays/jagged-arrays.md)                         | ✔️           | ✔️              |

## System.Collections namespace

| Type                                      | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.ArrayList>       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.BitArray>        | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.DictionaryEntry> | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Hashtable>       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.ICollection>     | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary>     | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable>     | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.IList>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Queue>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.SortedList>      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Stack> \*        | ✔️           | ✔️              |

\* See [Support round trip for Stack](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

## System.Collections.Generic namespace

| Type                                                      | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602> \*       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.HashSet%601>             | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IAsyncEnumerable%601> \*\* | ✔️         | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601>         | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IDictionary%602> \*      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable%601>         | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IList%601>               | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IReadOnlyCollection%601> | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IReadOnlyDictionary%602> \* | ✔️        | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IReadOnlyList%601>       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601>                | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.KeyValuePair%602>        | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.LinkedList%601>          | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.LinkedListNode%601>      | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601>                | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Queue%601>               | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedDictionary%602> \* | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedList%602> \*       | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedSet%601>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Stack%601> \*\*\*        | ✔️           | ✔️              |

\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

\*\* See the following section on `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`.

\*\*\* See [Support round trip for Stack\<T>](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

### IAsyncEnumerable\<T>

The following examples use streams as a representation of any async source of data. The source could be files on a local machine, or results from a database query or web service API call.

#### Stream serialization

`System.Text.Json` supports serializing <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IAsyncEnumerable%601> values as JSON arrays, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/supported-collection-types/csharp/IAsyncEnumerableSerialize.cs" highlight="15":::

`IAsyncEnumerable<T>` values are only supported by the asynchronous serialization methods, such as <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.SerializeAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

#### Stream deserialization

The `DeserializeAsyncEnumerable` method supports streaming deserialization, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/supported-collection-types/csharp/IAsyncEnumerableDeserialize.cs" highlight="11":::

The `DeserializeAsyncEnumerable` method only supports reading from root-level JSON arrays.

The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.DeserializeAsync%2A> method supports `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`, but its signature doesn't allow streaming. It returns the final result as a single value, as shown in the following example.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/supported-collection-types/csharp/IAsyncEnumerableDeserializeNonStreaming.cs" highlight="16":::

In this example, the deserializer buffers all `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` contents in memory before returning the deserialized object. This behavior is necessary because the deserializer needs to read the entire JSON payload before returning a result.

## System.Collections.Immutable namespace

| Type                                                              | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableDictionary%602> \*\* | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableList%601>            | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableQueue%601>           | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601>             | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableStack%601> \*        | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableArray%601>            | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableDictionary%602> \*\*  | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableHashSet%601>          | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableQueue%601>            | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableSortedDictionary%602> \*\* | ✔️      | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableSortedSet%601>        | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.ImmutableStack%601> \*         | ✔️           | ✔️              |

\* See [Support round trip for Stack\<T>](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

\*\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

## System.Collections.Specialized namespace

| Type                                                      | Serialization | Deserialization |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.BitVector32>         | ✔️           | ❌\*            |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.HybridDictionary>    | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.IOrderedDictionary>  | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.ListDictionary>      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.NameValueCollection> | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.StringCollection>    | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.StringDictionary>    | ✔️           | ❌              |

\* When <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.BitVector32> is deserialized, the <xref:System.Collections.Specialized.BitVector32.Data> property is skipped because it doesn't have a public setter. No exception is thrown.

## System.Collections.Concurrent namespace

| Type                                                          | Serialization | Deserialization |
|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.BlockingCollection%601>   | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentBag%601>        | ✔️           | ❌              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentDictionary%602> \*\* | ✔️      | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentQueue%601>      | ✔️           | ✔️              |
| <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentStack%601> \*   | ✔️           | ✔️              |

\* See [Support round trip for Stack\<T>](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

\*\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

## System.Collections.ObjectModel namespace

| Type                                                           | Serialization | Deserialization |
|----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.Collection%601>           | ✔️            | ✔️             |
| [KeyedCollection\<string, TValue>](xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.KeyedCollection%602) \* |✔️|❌|
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ObservableCollection%601> | ✔️            | ✔️             |
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyCollection%601>   | ✔️            | ❌             |
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyDictionary%602>   | ✔️            | ❌             |
| <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyObservableCollection%601> | ✔️    | ❌             |

\* Non-`string` keys are not supported.

## Custom collections

Any collection type that isn't in one of the preceding namespaces is considered a custom collection. Such types include user-defined types and types defined by ASP.NET Core. For example, <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Primitives?displayProperty=fullName> is in this group.

All custom collections (everything that derives from `IEnumerable`) are supported for serialization, as long as their element types are supported.

### Custom collections with deserialization support

A custom collection is supported for deserialization if it:

* Isn't an interface or abstract.
* Has a parameterless constructor.
* Contains element types that are supported by <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>.
* Implements or inherits one or more of the following interfaces or classes:
  * <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentQueue%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentStack%601> \*
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IDictionary%602> \*\*
  * <xref:System.Collections.IList>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IList%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Queue>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Queue%601>
  * <xref:System.Collections.Stack> \*
  * <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Stack%601> \*

  \* See [Support round trip for Stack\<T>](converters-how-to.md#support-round-trip-for-stackt).

  \*\* See [Supported key types](#supported-key-types).

### Custom collections with known issues

There are known issues with the following custom collections:

* <xref:System.Dynamic.ExpandoObject>: See [dotnet/runtime#29690](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/29690).
* <xref:System.Dynamic.DynamicObject>: See [dotnet/runtime#1808](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1808).
* <xref:System.Data.DataTable>: See [dotnet/docs#21366](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues/21366).
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.FormFile?displayProperty=fullName>: See [dotnet/runtime#1559](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1559).
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormCollection?displayProperty=fullName>: See [dotnet/runtime#1559](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1559).

For more information about known issues, see the [open issues in System.Text.Json](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aarea-System.Text.Json).

## Supported key types

Supported types for the keys of `Dictionary` and `SortedList` types include the following:

* `Boolean`
* `Byte`
* `DateTime`
* `DateTimeOffset`
* `Decimal`
* `Double`
* `Enum`
* `Guid`
* `Int16`
* `Int32`
* `Int64`
* `Object` (Only on serialization and if the runtime type is one of the supported types in this list.)
* `SByte`
* `Single`
* `String`
* `UInt16`
* `UInt32`
* `UInt64`

## System.Data namespace

There are no built-in converters for <xref:System.Data.DataSet>, <xref:System.Data.DataTable>, and related types in the <xref:System.Data> namespace. Deserializing these types from untrusted input is not safe, as explained in [the security guidance](../../../framework/data/adonet/dataset-datatable-dataview/security-guidance.md#safety-with-regard-to-untrusted-input). However, you can write a custom converter to support these types. For sample custom converter code that serializes and deserializes a `DataTable`, see [RoundtripDataTable.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/blob/main/docs/standard/serialization/system-text-json/snippets/how-to/csharp/RoundtripDataTable.cs).

## See also

* [System.Text.Json overview](overview.md)
* [System.Text.Json API reference](xref:System.Text.Json)
* [System.Text.Json.Serialization API reference](xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization)
