docs/visual-basic/reference/command-line-compiler/how-to-invoke-the-command-line-compiler.md, before:

---
description: "Learn more about: How to: Invoke the Command-Line Compiler (Visual Basic)"
title: "How to: Invoke the Command-Line Compiler"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "command-line arguments"
  - "vbc.exe"
  - "Visual Basic compiler, starting"
  - "command line [Visual Basic], arguments"
ms.assetid: 0fd9a8f6-f34e-4c35-a49d-9b9bbd8da4a9
---
# How to: Invoke the Command-Line Compiler (Visual Basic)

You can invoke the command-line compiler by typing the name of its executable file into the command line, also known as the MS-DOS prompt. If you compile from the default Windows Command Prompt, you must type the fully qualified path to the executable file. To override this default behavior, you can either use the Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio, or modify the PATH environment variable. Both allow you to compile from any directory by simply typing the compiler name.

[!INCLUDE[note_settings_general](~/includes/note-settings-general-md.md)]

## To invoke the compiler using the Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio

1. Open the Visual Studio Tools program folder within the Microsoft Visual Studio program group.

2. You can use the Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio to access the compiler from any directory on your machine, if Visual Studio is installed.

3. Invoke the Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio.

4. At the command line, type `vbc.exe` *sourceFileName* and then press ENTER.

    For example, if you stored your source code in a directory called `SourceFiles`, you would open the Command Prompt and type `cd SourceFiles` to change to that directory. If the directory contained a source file named `Source.vb`, you could compile it by typing `vbc.exe Source.vb`.

## To set the PATH environment variable to the compiler for the Windows Command Prompt

1. Use the Windows Search feature to find Vbc.exe on your local disk.

    The exact name of the directory where the compiler is located depends on the location of the Windows directory and the version of the ".NET Framework" installed. If you have more than one version of the ".NET Framework" installed, you must determine which version to use (typically the latest version).

2. From your **Start** Menu, right-click **My Computer**, and then click **Properties** from the shortcut menu.

3. Click the **Advanced** tab, and then click **Environment Variables**.

4. In the **System** variables pane, select **Path** from the list and click **Edit**.

5. In the **Edit System** Variable dialog box, move the insertion point to the end of the string in the **Variable Value** field and type a semicolon (;) followed by the full directory name found in Step 1.

6. Click **OK** to confirm your edits and close the dialog boxes.

     After you change the PATH environment variable, you can run the Visual Basic compiler at the Windows Command Prompt from any directory on the computer.

## To invoke the compiler using the Windows Command Prompt

1. From the **Start** menu, click on the **Accessories** folder, and then open the **Windows Command Prompt**.

2. At the command line, type `vbc.exe`*sourceFileName* and then press ENTER.

     For example, if you stored your source code in a directory called `SourceFiles`, you would open the Command Prompt and type `cd SourceFiles` to change to that directory. If the directory contained a source file named `Source.vb`, you could compile it by typing `vbc.exe Source.vb`.

## See also

- [Visual Basic Command-Line Compiler](index.md)
- [Conditional Compilation](../../programming-guide/program-structure/conditional-compilation.md)

Commit message:

Fix #49457 – Update VB build instructions to prefer dotnet build over vbc.exe (#49518)
* Add 'See also' link to dotnet build in VB compiler doc

* Fix #49457 - Update VB build instructions to prefer dotnet build over vbc.exe

* Fix link path typo in VB compiler doc

* Fix link path for dotnet build in VB compiler doc

* Fix relative link path for dotnet build reference

* Fix markdown code block formatting to resolve OPS warning

* Fix markdown code block formatting to resolve OPS warning

* Fix markdown code block formatting to resolve OPS warning

* Fix markdown code block formatting to resolve OPS warning

* Fixed markdown formatting and duplicate code block issue in VB command-line compiler doc

* Fixed markdown formatting and duplicate code block issue in VB command-line compiler doc

* Move tip to top and add styled link to dotnet build

* Move tip to top and add styled link to dotnet build

* Remove extra blank lines from VB compiler doc

docs/visual-basic/reference/command-line-compiler/how-to-invoke-the-command-line-compiler.md, after:

---
description: "Learn more about: How to: Invoke the Command-Line Compiler (Visual Basic)"
title: "How to: Invoke the Command-Line Compiler"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "command-line arguments"
  - "vbc.exe"
  - "Visual Basic compiler, starting"
  - "command line [Visual Basic], arguments"
ms.assetid: 0fd9a8f6-f34e-4c35-a49d-9b9bbd8da4a9
---
# How to Invoke the Command-Line Compiler

[!TIP]
For modern .NET projects, use the [`dotnet build`](../../../core/tools/dotnet-build.md) command to compile Visual Basic source files.
The `vbc.exe` command-line compiler is only used for older .NET Framework projects.

You can invoke the command-line compiler by typing the name of its executable file into the command line, also known as the MS-DOS prompt. If you compile from the default Windows Command Prompt, you must type the fully qualified path to the executable file. To override this default behavior, you can either use the Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio, or modify the PATH environment variable. Both allow you to compile from any directory by simply typing the compiler name.

[!INCLUDE[note_settings_general](~/includes/note-settings-general-md.md)]

## To invoke the compiler using the Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio

1. Open the Visual Studio Tools program folder within the Microsoft Visual Studio program group.

2. You can use the **Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio** to access the compiler from any directory on your machine, if Visual Studio is installed.

3. Open the **Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio**.

4. At the command line, type `vbc.exe <sourceFileName>` and then press **Enter**.

For example, if you stored your source code in a directory called `SourceFiles`, you would open the Command Prompt and type:

```cmd
cd SourceFiles
vbc.exe Source.vb
```

## To set the PATH environment variable to the compiler for the Windows Command Prompt

1. Use the Windows Search feature to find Vbc.exe on your local disk.

    The exact name of the directory where the compiler is located depends on the location of the Windows directory and the version of the ".NET Framework" installed. If you have more than one version of the ".NET Framework" installed, you must determine which version to use (typically the latest version).

2. From your **Start** Menu, right-click **My Computer**, and then click **Properties** from the shortcut menu.

3. Click the **Advanced** tab, and then click **Environment Variables**.

4. In the **System** variables pane, select **Path** from the list and click **Edit**.

5. In the **Edit System** Variable dialog box, move the insertion point to the end of the string in the **Variable Value** field and type a semicolon (;) followed by the full directory name found in Step 1.

6. Click **OK** to confirm your edits and close the dialog boxes.

 After you change the PATH environment variable, you can run the Visual Basic compiler at the Windows Command Prompt from any directory on the computer.

## To invoke the compiler using the Windows Command Prompt

1. From the **Start** menu, click on the **Accessories** folder, and then open the **Windows Command Prompt**.

2. At the command line, type `vbc.exe <sourceFileName>` and then press **Enter**.

For example, if you stored your source code in a directory called `SourceFiles`, you would open the Command Prompt and type:

```cmd
cd SourceFiles
vbc.exe Source.vb
```

## See also

- [Visual Basic Command-Line Compiler](index.md)
- [Conditional Compilation](../../programming-guide/program-structure/conditional-compilation.md)
- [dotnet build](../../../core/tools/dotnet-build.md) — for modern .NET SDK usage
