docs/framework/unmanaged-api/metadata/index.md, before:

---
description: "Learn more about: Metadata (Unmanaged API Reference)"
title: "Metadata (Unmanaged API Reference)"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "unmanaged API reference [.NET Framework], metadata"
  - "native API reference [.NET Framework], metadata"
  - "metadata [.NET Framework], using the unmanaged API"
ms.assetid: 10cfea92-db5e-4bcb-b301-ef029bcf77a3
---
# Metadata (Unmanaged API Reference)

The metadata API enables a client, such as a compiler, to generate or access a component's metadata without the types being loaded by the common language runtime (CLR).  
  
## In This Section  

 [Metadata Interfaces](metadata-interfaces.md)  
 Describes the unmanaged interfaces that provide access to the metadata exposed by the .NET Framework types, methods, fields, and so on.  
  
 [Metadata Global Static Functions](metadata-global-static-functions.md)  
 Describes the unmanaged global static functions that the metadata API uses.  
  
 [Metadata Enumerations](metadata-enumerations.md)  
 Describes the unmanaged enumerations that the metadata API uses.  
  
 [Metadata Structures](metadata-structures.md)  
 Describes the unmanaged structures that the metadata API uses.  
  
 [Metadata Unions](metadata-unions.md)  
 Describes the unmanaged unions that the metadata API uses.

Commit message:

Move ICorDebug API from /framework/ to /core/ folder (#48170)

docs/framework/unmanaged-api/metadata/index.md, after:

---
description: "Learn more about: Metadata (Unmanaged API Reference)"
title: "Metadata (Unmanaged API Reference)"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "unmanaged API reference [.NET Framework], metadata"
  - "native API reference [.NET Framework], metadata"
  - "metadata [.NET Framework], using the unmanaged API"
ms.assetid: 10cfea92-db5e-4bcb-b301-ef029bcf77a3
---
# Metadata (Unmanaged API Reference)

The metadata API enables a client, such as a compiler, to generate or access a component's metadata without the types being loaded by the common language runtime (CLR).

These articles describe APIs for .NET Framework. For unmanaged APIs that are supported on .NET (Core), see [.NET metadata (unmanaged API reference)](../../../core/unmanaged-api/metadata/index.md).

## In This Section

 [Metadata Interfaces](metadata-interfaces.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged interfaces that provide access to the metadata exposed by the .NET Framework types, methods, fields, and so on.

 [Metadata Global Static Functions](metadata-global-static-functions.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged global static functions that the metadata API uses.

 [Metadata Enumerations](metadata-enumerations.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged enumerations that the metadata API uses.

 [Metadata Structures](metadata-structures.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged structures that the metadata API uses.

 [Metadata Unions](metadata-unions.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged unions that the metadata API uses.
