---
title: Create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code
description: Learn how to create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code.
ms.date: 11/22/2024
---
# Tutorial: Create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code

This tutorial shows how to create and run a .NET console application by using Visual Studio Code.

## Prerequisites

[!INCLUDE [Prerequisites](../../../includes/prerequisites-basic-winget.md)]

## Create the app

Create a .NET console app project named "HelloWorld".

1. Start Visual Studio Code.

1. Go to the Explorer view and select **Create .NET Project**. Alternatively, you can bring up the Command Palette using Ctrl+Shift+P (Command+Shift+P on MacOS) and then type ".NET" and find and select the .NET: New Project command.

1. After selecting the command, you need to choose the project template. Choose **Console App**.

1. Select the location where you would like the new project to be created.

1. Give your new project a name, "HelloWorld".

1. Select to **Show all template options**. Set **Do not use top-level statements** to **true**. And finally, select **Create Project**.

1. In the **Do you trust the authors of the files in this folder?** dialog, select **Yes, I trust the authors**. You can trust the authors because this folder only has files generated by .NET and added or modified by you.

1. Open the *Program.cs* file to see the simple application created by the template:

   ```csharp
   namespace HelloWorld;

   class Program
   {
       static void Main(string[] args)
       {
           Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
       }
   }
   ```

   The code defines a class, `Program`, with a single method, `Main`, that takes a <xref:System.String> array as an argument. `Main` is the application entry point, the method that's called automatically by the runtime when it launches the application. Any command-line arguments supplied when the application is launched are available in the *args* array. The code in `Main` calls the <xref:System.Console.WriteLine(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to display a message in the console window.

   C# has a feature named [top-level statements](../../csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/top-level-statements.md) that lets you omit the `Program` class and the `Main` method. This tutorial doesn't use this feature. Whether you use it in your programs is a matter of style preference. By setting **Do not use top-level statements to true** when you created the project, you prevented top-level statements from being used.

## Run the app

To run your app, select **Run** > **Run without Debugging** in the upper menu, or use the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+F5).

If asked to select a debugger, select **C#**, then select **C#: HelloWorld**

The program displays "Hello, World!" and ends.

## Enhance the app

Enhance the application to prompt the user for their name and display it along with the date and time.

1. Open *Program.cs*.

1. Replace the contents of the `Main` method in *Program.cs*, which is the line that calls `Console.WriteLine`, with the following code:

   :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/with-visual-studio/csharp/Program-Read.cs" id="MainMethod":::

   This code displays a prompt in the console window and waits until the user enters a string followed by the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. It stores this string in a variable named `name`. It also retrieves the value of the <xref:System.DateTime.Now?displayProperty=nameWithType> property, which contains the current local time, and assigns it to a variable named `currentDate`. And it displays these values in the console window. Finally, it displays a prompt in the console window and calls the <xref:System.Console.ReadKey(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to wait for user input.

   <xref:System.Environment.NewLine> is a platform-independent and language-independent way to represent a line break. It's the same as `\n` in C#.

   The dollar sign (`$`) in front of a string lets you put expressions such as variable names in curly braces in the string. The expression value is inserted into the string in place of the expression. This syntax is referred to as [interpolated strings](../../csharp/language-reference/tokens/interpolated.md).

1. Save your changes.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > In Visual Studio Code, you have to explicitly save changes. Unlike Visual Studio, file changes are not automatically saved when you build and run an app.

1. Select **Run**>**Run without debugging**.

1. Respond to the prompt by entering a name and pressing the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key.

   :::image type="content" source="media/debugging-with-visual-studio-code/run-modified-program.png" alt-text="Terminal window with modified program output":::

1. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to exit the program.

## Additional resources

* [Setting up Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview)

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created a .NET console application. In the next tutorial, you debug the app.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Debug a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code](debugging-with-visual-studio-code.md)
