docs/core/tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md, before:

---
title: Create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code
description: Learn how to create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code and the .NET CLI.
ms.date: 10/22/2021
zone_pivot_groups: dotnet-version
recommendations: false
---
# Tutorial: Create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code

::: zone pivot="dotnet-6-0"

This tutorial shows how to create and run a .NET console application by using Visual Studio Code and the .NET CLI. Project tasks, such as creating, compiling, and running a project are done by using the .NET CLI. You can follow this tutorial with a different code editor and run commands in a terminal if you prefer.

## Prerequisites

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csharp) installed. For information about how to install extensions on Visual Studio Code, see [VS Code Extension Marketplace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-gallery).
* The [.NET 6 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0).

## Create the app

Create a .NET console app project named "HelloWorld".

1. Start Visual Studio Code.

1. Select **File** > **Open Folder** (**File** > **Open...** on macOS) from the main menu.

1. In the **Open Folder** dialog, create a *HelloWorld* folder and select it. Then click **Select Folder** (**Open** on macOS).

   The folder name becomes the project name and the namespace name by default. You'll add code later in the tutorial that assumes the project namespace is `HelloWorld`.

1. In the **Do you trust the authors of the files in this folder?** dialog, select **Yes, I trust the authors**.

1. Open the **Terminal** in Visual Studio Code by selecting **View** > **Terminal** from the main menu.

   The **Terminal** opens with the command prompt in the *HelloWorld* folder.

1. In the **Terminal**, enter the following command:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet new console --framework net6.0
   ```

   The project template creates a simple application that displays "Hello World" in the console window by calling the <xref:System.Console.WriteLine(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method in *Program.cs*.

   ```csharp
   Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
   ```

1. Replace the contents of *Program.cs* with the following code:

   ```csharp
   namespace HelloWorld
   {
       class Program
       {
           static void Main(string[] args)
           {
               Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
           }
       }
   }
   ```

   Select **Yes** if Visual Studio Code prompts you to add the missing assets to build and debug your app.

   The code defines a class, `Program`, with a single method, `Main`, that takes a <xref:System.String> array as an argument. `Main` is the application entry point, the method that's called automatically by the runtime when it launches the application. Any command-line arguments supplied when the application is launched are available in the *args* array.

   In the latest version of C#, a new feature named [top-level statements](../../csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/top-level-statements.md) lets you omit the `Program` class and the `Main` method. Most existing C# programs don't use top-level statements, so this tutorial doesn't use this new feature. But it's available in C# 10, and whether you use it in your programs is a matter of style preference.

## Run the app

Run the following command in the **Terminal**:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run
```

The program displays "Hello World!" and ends.

![The dotnet run command](media/with-visual-studio-code/dotnet-run-command.png)

## Enhance the app

Enhance the application to prompt the user for their name and display it along with the date and time.

1. Open *Program.cs*.

1. Replace the contents of the `Main` method in *Program.cs*, which is the line that calls `Console.WriteLine`, with the following code:

   :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/with-visual-studio/csharp/Program.cs" id="MainMethod":::

   This code displays a prompt in the console window and waits until the user enters a string followed by the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. It stores this string in a variable named `name`. It also retrieves the value of the <xref:System.DateTime.Now?displayProperty=nameWithType> property, which contains the current local time, and assigns it to a variable named `currentDate`. And it displays these values in the console window. Finally, it displays a prompt in the console window and calls the <xref:System.Console.ReadKey(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to wait for user input.

   <xref:System.Environment.NewLine> is a platform-independent and language-independent way to represent a line break. Alternatives are `\n` in C# and `vbCrLf` in Visual Basic.

   The dollar sign (`$`) in front of a string lets you put expressions such as variable names in curly braces in the string. The expression value is inserted into the string in place of the expression. This syntax is referred to as [interpolated strings](../../csharp/language-reference/tokens/interpolated.md).

1. Save your changes.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > In Visual Studio Code, you have to explicitly save changes. Unlike Visual Studio, file changes are not automatically saved when you build and run an app.

1. Run the program again:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

1. Respond to the prompt by entering a name and pressing the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key.

   :::image type="content" source="media/debugging-with-visual-studio-code/run-modified-program.png" alt-text="Terminal window with modified program output":::

1. Press any key to exit the program.

## Additional resources

- [Setting up Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview)

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created a .NET console application. In the next tutorial, you debug the app.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Debug a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code](debugging-with-visual-studio-code.md)

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="dotnet-5-0"

This tutorial shows how to create and run a .NET console application by using Visual Studio Code and the .NET CLI. Project tasks, such as creating, compiling, and running a project are done by using the .NET CLI. You can follow this tutorial with a different code editor and run commands in a terminal if you prefer.

## Prerequisites

1. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csharp) installed. For information about how to install extensions on Visual Studio Code, see [VS Code Extension Marketplace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-gallery).
2. The [.NET 5 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download). If you install the .NET 6 SDK, install the .NET 5 SDK also, or some of the tutorial instructions won't work. For more information, see [New C# templates generate top-level statements](top-level-templates.md).

## Create the app

Create a .NET console app project named "HelloWorld".

1. Start Visual Studio Code.

1. Select **File** > **Open Folder** (**File** > **Open...** on macOS) from the main menu.

1. In the **Open Folder** dialog, create a *HelloWorld* folder and click **Select Folder** (**Open** on macOS).

   The folder name becomes the project name and the namespace name by default. You'll add code later in the tutorial that assumes the project namespace is `HelloWorld`.

1. Open the **Terminal** in Visual Studio Code by selecting **View** > **Terminal** from the main menu.

   The **Terminal** opens with the command prompt in the *HelloWorld* folder.

1. In the **Terminal**, enter the following command:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet new console --framework net5.0
   ```

The template creates a simple "Hello World" application. It calls the <xref:System.Console.WriteLine(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to display ":::no-loc text="Hello World!":::" in the console window.

The template code defines a class, `Program`, with a single method, `Main`, that takes a <xref:System.String> array as an argument:

```csharp
using System;

namespace HelloWorld
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
        }
    }
}
```

`Main` is the application entry point, the method that's called automatically by the runtime when it launches the application. Any command-line arguments supplied when the application is launched are available in the *args* array.

## Run the app

Run the following command in the **Terminal**:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run
```

The program displays "Hello World!" and ends.

![The dotnet run command](media/with-visual-studio-code/dotnet-run-command.png)

## Enhance the app

Enhance the application to prompt the user for their name and display it along with the date and time.

1. Open *Program.cs* by clicking on it.

   The first time you open a C# file in Visual Studio Code, [OmniSharp](https://www.omnisharp.net/) loads in the editor.

   ![Open the Program.cs file](media/with-visual-studio-code/open-program-cs.png)

1. Select **Yes** when Visual Studio Code prompts you to add the missing assets to build and debug your app.

   ![Prompt for missing assets](media/with-visual-studio-code/missing-assets.png)

1. Replace the contents of the `Main` method in *Program.cs*, which is the line that calls `Console.WriteLine`, with the following code:

   :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/with-visual-studio-6-0/csharp/Program.cs" id="MainMethod":::

   This code displays a prompt in the console window and waits until the user enters a string followed by the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. It stores this string in a variable named `name`. It also retrieves the value of the <xref:System.DateTime.Now?displayProperty=nameWithType> property, which contains the current local time, and assigns it to a variable named `currentDate`. And it displays these values in the console window. Finally, it displays a prompt in the console window and calls the <xref:System.Console.ReadKey(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to wait for user input.

   <xref:System.Environment.NewLine> is a platform-independent and language-independent way to represent a line break. Alternatives are `\n` in C# and `vbCrLf` in Visual Basic.

   The dollar sign (`$`) in front of a string lets you put expressions such as variable names in curly braces in the string. The expression value is inserted into the string in place of the expression. This syntax is referred to as [interpolated strings](../../csharp/language-reference/tokens/interpolated.md).

1. Save your changes.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > In Visual Studio Code, you have to explicitly save changes. Unlike Visual Studio, file changes are not automatically saved when you build and run an app.

1. Run the program again:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

1. Respond to the prompt by entering a name and pressing the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key.

   :::image type="content" source="media/debugging-with-visual-studio-code/run-modified-program.png" alt-text="Terminal window with modified program output":::

1. Press any key to exit the program.

## Additional resources

- [Setting up Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview)

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created a .NET console application. In the next tutorial, you debug the app.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Debug a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code](debugging-with-visual-studio-code.md)

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="dotnet-core-3-1"

This tutorial is only available for .NET 5 and .NET 6. Select one of those options at the top of the page.

::: zone-end

Commit message:

Note creation of .vscode folder

docs/core/tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md, after:

---
title: Create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code
description: Learn how to create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code and the .NET CLI.
ms.date: 10/22/2021
zone_pivot_groups: dotnet-version
recommendations: false
---
# Tutorial: Create a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code

::: zone pivot="dotnet-6-0"

This tutorial shows how to create and run a .NET console application by using Visual Studio Code and the .NET CLI. Project tasks, such as creating, compiling, and running a project are done by using the .NET CLI. You can follow this tutorial with a different code editor and run commands in a terminal if you prefer.

## Prerequisites

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csharp) installed. For information about how to install extensions on Visual Studio Code, see [VS Code Extension Marketplace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-gallery).
* The [.NET 6 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0).

## Create the app

Create a .NET console app project named "HelloWorld".

1. Start Visual Studio Code.

1. Select **File** > **Open Folder** (**File** > **Open...** on macOS) from the main menu.

1. In the **Open Folder** dialog, create a *HelloWorld* folder and select it. Then click **Select Folder** (**Open** on macOS).

   The folder name becomes the project name and the namespace name by default. You'll add code later in the tutorial that assumes the project namespace is `HelloWorld`.

1. In the **Do you trust the authors of the files in this folder?** dialog, select **Yes, I trust the authors**.

1. Open the **Terminal** in Visual Studio Code by selecting **View** > **Terminal** from the main menu.

   The **Terminal** opens with the command prompt in the *HelloWorld* folder.

1. In the **Terminal**, enter the following command:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet new console --framework net6.0
   ```

   The project template creates a simple application that displays "Hello World" in the console window by calling the <xref:System.Console.WriteLine(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method in *Program.cs*.

   ```csharp
   Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
   ```

1. Replace the contents of *Program.cs* with the following code:

   ```csharp
   namespace HelloWorld
   {
       class Program
       {
           static void Main(string[] args)
           {
               Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
           }
       }
   }
   ```

   The first time you edit a *.cs* file, Visual Studio Code prompts you to add the missing assets to build and debug your app. Select **Yes**, and Visual Studio Code creates a *.vscode* folder with *launch.json* and *tasks.json* files.

   The code defines a class, `Program`, with a single method, `Main`, that takes a <xref:System.String> array as an argument. `Main` is the application entry point, the method that's called automatically by the runtime when it launches the application. Any command-line arguments supplied when the application is launched are available in the *args* array.

   In the latest version of C#, a new feature named [top-level statements](../../csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/top-level-statements.md) lets you omit the `Program` class and the `Main` method. Most existing C# programs don't use top-level statements, so this tutorial doesn't use this new feature. But it's available in C# 10, and whether you use it in your programs is a matter of style preference.

## Run the app

Run the following command in the **Terminal**:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run
```

The program displays "Hello World!" and ends.

![The dotnet run command](media/with-visual-studio-code/dotnet-run-command.png)

## Enhance the app

Enhance the application to prompt the user for their name and display it along with the date and time.

1. Open *Program.cs*.

1. Replace the contents of the `Main` method in *Program.cs*, which is the line that calls `Console.WriteLine`, with the following code:

   :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/with-visual-studio/csharp/Program.cs" id="MainMethod":::

   This code displays a prompt in the console window and waits until the user enters a string followed by the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. It stores this string in a variable named `name`. It also retrieves the value of the <xref:System.DateTime.Now?displayProperty=nameWithType> property, which contains the current local time, and assigns it to a variable named `currentDate`. And it displays these values in the console window. Finally, it displays a prompt in the console window and calls the <xref:System.Console.ReadKey(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to wait for user input.

   <xref:System.Environment.NewLine> is a platform-independent and language-independent way to represent a line break. Alternatives are `\n` in C# and `vbCrLf` in Visual Basic.

   The dollar sign (`$`) in front of a string lets you put expressions such as variable names in curly braces in the string. The expression value is inserted into the string in place of the expression. This syntax is referred to as [interpolated strings](../../csharp/language-reference/tokens/interpolated.md).

1. Save your changes.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > In Visual Studio Code, you have to explicitly save changes. Unlike Visual Studio, file changes are not automatically saved when you build and run an app.

1. Run the program again:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

1. Respond to the prompt by entering a name and pressing the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key.

   :::image type="content" source="media/debugging-with-visual-studio-code/run-modified-program.png" alt-text="Terminal window with modified program output":::

1. Press any key to exit the program.

## Additional resources

- [Setting up Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview)

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created a .NET console application. In the next tutorial, you debug the app.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Debug a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code](debugging-with-visual-studio-code.md)

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="dotnet-5-0"

This tutorial shows how to create and run a .NET console application by using Visual Studio Code and the .NET CLI. Project tasks, such as creating, compiling, and running a project are done by using the .NET CLI. You can follow this tutorial with a different code editor and run commands in a terminal if you prefer.

## Prerequisites

1. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csharp) installed. For information about how to install extensions on Visual Studio Code, see [VS Code Extension Marketplace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-gallery).
2. The [.NET 5 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download). If you install the .NET 6 SDK, install the .NET 5 SDK also, or some of the tutorial instructions won't work. For more information, see [New C# templates generate top-level statements](top-level-templates.md).

## Create the app

Create a .NET console app project named "HelloWorld".

1. Start Visual Studio Code.

1. Select **File** > **Open Folder** (**File** > **Open...** on macOS) from the main menu.

1. In the **Open Folder** dialog, create a *HelloWorld* folder and click **Select Folder** (**Open** on macOS).

   The folder name becomes the project name and the namespace name by default. You'll add code later in the tutorial that assumes the project namespace is `HelloWorld`.

1. Open the **Terminal** in Visual Studio Code by selecting **View** > **Terminal** from the main menu.

   The **Terminal** opens with the command prompt in the *HelloWorld* folder.

1. In the **Terminal**, enter the following command:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet new console --framework net5.0
   ```

The template creates a simple "Hello World" application. It calls the <xref:System.Console.WriteLine(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to display ":::no-loc text="Hello World!":::" in the console window.

The template code defines a class, `Program`, with a single method, `Main`, that takes a <xref:System.String> array as an argument:

```csharp
using System;

namespace HelloWorld
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
        }
    }
}
```

`Main` is the application entry point, the method that's called automatically by the runtime when it launches the application. Any command-line arguments supplied when the application is launched are available in the *args* array.

## Run the app

Run the following command in the **Terminal**:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run
```

The program displays "Hello World!" and ends.

![The dotnet run command](media/with-visual-studio-code/dotnet-run-command.png)

## Enhance the app

Enhance the application to prompt the user for their name and display it along with the date and time.

1. Open *Program.cs* by clicking on it.

   The first time you open a C# file in Visual Studio Code, [OmniSharp](https://www.omnisharp.net/) loads in the editor.

   ![Open the Program.cs file](media/with-visual-studio-code/open-program-cs.png)

1. Select **Yes** when Visual Studio Code prompts you to add the missing assets to build and debug your app.

   ![Prompt for missing assets](media/with-visual-studio-code/missing-assets.png)

1. Replace the contents of the `Main` method in *Program.cs*, which is the line that calls `Console.WriteLine`, with the following code:

   :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/with-visual-studio-6-0/csharp/Program.cs" id="MainMethod":::

   This code displays a prompt in the console window and waits until the user enters a string followed by the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. It stores this string in a variable named `name`. It also retrieves the value of the <xref:System.DateTime.Now?displayProperty=nameWithType> property, which contains the current local time, and assigns it to a variable named `currentDate`. And it displays these values in the console window. Finally, it displays a prompt in the console window and calls the <xref:System.Console.ReadKey(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to wait for user input.

   <xref:System.Environment.NewLine> is a platform-independent and language-independent way to represent a line break. Alternatives are `\n` in C# and `vbCrLf` in Visual Basic.

   The dollar sign (`$`) in front of a string lets you put expressions such as variable names in curly braces in the string. The expression value is inserted into the string in place of the expression. This syntax is referred to as [interpolated strings](../../csharp/language-reference/tokens/interpolated.md).

1. Save your changes.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > In Visual Studio Code, you have to explicitly save changes. Unlike Visual Studio, file changes are not automatically saved when you build and run an app.

1. Run the program again:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

1. Respond to the prompt by entering a name and pressing the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key.

   :::image type="content" source="media/debugging-with-visual-studio-code/run-modified-program.png" alt-text="Terminal window with modified program output":::

1. Press any key to exit the program.

## Additional resources

- [Setting up Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview)

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created a .NET console application. In the next tutorial, you debug the app.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Debug a .NET console application using Visual Studio Code](debugging-with-visual-studio-code.md)

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="dotnet-core-3-1"

This tutorial is only available for .NET 5 and .NET 6. Select one of those options at the top of the page.

::: zone-end
