docs/standard/native-interop/pinvoke-source-generation.md, before:

---
title: P/Invoke source generation
description: Learn about compile-time source generation for platform invokes in .NET.
ms.date: 07/25/2022
---

# Source generation for platform invokes

.NET 7 introduces a [source generator](../../csharp/roslyn-sdk/source-generators-overview.md) for P/Invokes that recognizes the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> in C# code.

When it's not using source generation, the built-in interop system in the .NET runtime generates an IL stub&mdash;a stream of IL instructions that is JIT-ed&mdash;at run time to facilitate the transition from managed to unmanaged. The following code shows defining and then calling a P/Invoke that uses this mechanism:

```csharp
[DllImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower",
    CharSet = CharSet.Unicode)]
internal static extern string ToLower(string str);

// string lower = ToLower("StringToConvert");
```

The IL stub handles [marshalling](type-marshalling.md) of parameters and return values and calling the unmanaged code while respecting settings on <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> that affect how the unmanaged code should be invoked (for example, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.SetLastError>). Since this IL stub is generated at run time, it isn't available for ahead-of-time (AOT) compiler or IL trimming scenarios. Generation of the IL represents an important cost to consider for marshalling. This cost can be measured in terms of application performance and support for potential target platforms that may not permit dynamic code generation. The [Native AOT](../../core/deploying/native-aot/index.md) application model addresses issues with dynamic code generation by precompiling all code ahead of time directly into native code. Using `DllImport` isn't an option for platforms that require full Native AOT scenarios and therefore using other approaches (for example, source generation) is more appropriate. Debugging the marshalling logic in `DllImport` scenarios is also a non-trivial exercise.

The P/Invoke source generator, included with the .NET 7 SDK and enabled by default, looks for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> on a `static` and `partial` method to trigger compile-time source generation of marshalling code, removing the need for the generation of an IL stub at run time and allowing the P/Invoke to be inlined. [Analyzers](../../fundamentals/syslib-diagnostics/syslib1050-1069.md) and code fixers are also included to help with migration from the built-in system to the source generator and with usage in general.

## Basic usage

The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> is designed to be similar to <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> in usage. We can convert the previous example to use P/Invoke source generation by using the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> and marking the method as `partial` instead of `extern`:

```csharp
[LibraryImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower",
    StringMarshalling = StringMarshalling.Utf16)]
internal static partial string ToLower(string str);
```

During compilation, the source generator will trigger to generate an implementation of the `ToLower` method that handles marshalling of the `string` parameter and return value as UTF-16. Since the marshalling is now generated source code, you can actually look at and step through the logic in a debugger.

### `MarshalAs`

The source generator also respects the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute>. The preceding code could also be written as:

```csharp
[LibraryImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower")]
[return: MarshalAs(UnmanagedType.LPWStr)]
internal static partial string ToLower(
    [MarshalAs(UnmanagedType.LPWStr)] string str);
```

Some settings for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> aren't supported. The source generator will emit an error if you try to use unsupported settings. For more information, see [Differences from DllImport](#differences-from-dllimport).

### Calling convention

To specify the calling convention, use <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallConvAttribute>, for example:

```csharp
[LibraryImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower",
    StringMarshalling = StringMarshalling.Utf16)]
[UnmanagedCallConv(
    CallConvs = new[] { typeof(CallConvStdcall) })]
internal static partial string ToLower(string str);
```

## Differences from `DllImport`

<xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> is intended to be a straightforward conversion from <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> in most cases, but there are some intentional changes:

- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.CallingConvention> has no equivalent on <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute>. <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallConvAttribute> should be used instead.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.CharSet> (for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.CharSet>) has been replaced with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.StringMarshalling> (for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute.StringMarshalling>). ANSI has been removed and UTF-8 is now available as a first-class option.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.BestFitMapping> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.ThrowOnUnmappableChar> have no equivalent. These fields were only relevant when marshalling an ANSI string on Windows. The generated code for marshalling an ANSI string will have the equivalent behavior of `BestFitMapping=false` and `ThrowOnUnmappableChar=false`.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.ExactSpelling> has no equivalent. This field was a Windows-centric setting and had no effect on non-Windows operating systems. The method name or <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute.EntryPoint> should be the exact spelling of the entry point name. This field has historical uses related to the [`A` and `W` suffixes](/windows/win32/intl/unicode-in-the-windows-api) used in Win32 programming.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.PreserveSig> has no equivalent. This field was a Windows-centric setting. The generated code always directly translates the signature.

There are also differences in support for some settings on <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute>, default marshalling of certain types, and other interop-related attributes. For more information, see our [documentation on compatibility differences](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/libraries/LibraryImportGenerator/Compatibility.md).

## See also

- [P/Invoke](pinvoke.md)
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute>
- [SYSLIB diagnostics for P/Invoke source generation](../../fundamentals/syslib-diagnostics/syslib1050-1069.md)

Commit message:

Update pinvoke-source-generation.md (#36470)
In the differences to DllImport section, add a command that LibraryImport requires the project to be marked unsafe.

docs/standard/native-interop/pinvoke-source-generation.md, after:

---
title: P/Invoke source generation
description: Learn about compile-time source generation for platform invokes in .NET.
ms.date: 07/25/2022
---

# Source generation for platform invokes

.NET 7 introduces a [source generator](../../csharp/roslyn-sdk/source-generators-overview.md) for P/Invokes that recognizes the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> in C# code.

When it's not using source generation, the built-in interop system in the .NET runtime generates an IL stub&mdash;a stream of IL instructions that is JIT-ed&mdash;at run time to facilitate the transition from managed to unmanaged. The following code shows defining and then calling a P/Invoke that uses this mechanism:

```csharp
[DllImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower",
    CharSet = CharSet.Unicode)]
internal static extern string ToLower(string str);

// string lower = ToLower("StringToConvert");
```

The IL stub handles [marshalling](type-marshalling.md) of parameters and return values and calling the unmanaged code while respecting settings on <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> that affect how the unmanaged code should be invoked (for example, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.SetLastError>). Since this IL stub is generated at run time, it isn't available for ahead-of-time (AOT) compiler or IL trimming scenarios. Generation of the IL represents an important cost to consider for marshalling. This cost can be measured in terms of application performance and support for potential target platforms that may not permit dynamic code generation. The [Native AOT](../../core/deploying/native-aot/index.md) application model addresses issues with dynamic code generation by precompiling all code ahead of time directly into native code. Using `DllImport` isn't an option for platforms that require full Native AOT scenarios and therefore using other approaches (for example, source generation) is more appropriate. Debugging the marshalling logic in `DllImport` scenarios is also a non-trivial exercise.

The P/Invoke source generator, included with the .NET 7 SDK and enabled by default, looks for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> on a `static` and `partial` method to trigger compile-time source generation of marshalling code, removing the need for the generation of an IL stub at run time and allowing the P/Invoke to be inlined. [Analyzers](../../fundamentals/syslib-diagnostics/syslib1050-1069.md) and code fixers are also included to help with migration from the built-in system to the source generator and with usage in general.

## Basic usage

The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> is designed to be similar to <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> in usage. We can convert the previous example to use P/Invoke source generation by using the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> and marking the method as `partial` instead of `extern`:

```csharp
[LibraryImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower",
    StringMarshalling = StringMarshalling.Utf16)]
internal static partial string ToLower(string str);
```

During compilation, the source generator will trigger to generate an implementation of the `ToLower` method that handles marshalling of the `string` parameter and return value as UTF-16. Since the marshalling is now generated source code, you can actually look at and step through the logic in a debugger.

### `MarshalAs`

The source generator also respects the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute>. The preceding code could also be written as:

```csharp
[LibraryImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower")]
[return: MarshalAs(UnmanagedType.LPWStr)]
internal static partial string ToLower(
    [MarshalAs(UnmanagedType.LPWStr)] string str);
```

Some settings for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> aren't supported. The source generator will emit an error if you try to use unsupported settings. For more information, see [Differences from DllImport](#differences-from-dllimport).

### Calling convention

To specify the calling convention, use <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallConvAttribute>, for example:

```csharp
[LibraryImport(
    "nativelib",
    EntryPoint = "to_lower",
    StringMarshalling = StringMarshalling.Utf16)]
[UnmanagedCallConv(
    CallConvs = new[] { typeof(CallConvStdcall) })]
internal static partial string ToLower(string str);
```

## Differences from `DllImport`

<xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> is intended to be a straightforward conversion from <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> in most cases, but there are some intentional changes:

- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.CallingConvention> has no equivalent on <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute>. <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallConvAttribute> should be used instead.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.CharSet> (for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.CharSet>) has been replaced with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.StringMarshalling> (for <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute.StringMarshalling>). ANSI has been removed and UTF-8 is now available as a first-class option.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.BestFitMapping> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.ThrowOnUnmappableChar> have no equivalent. These fields were only relevant when marshalling an ANSI string on Windows. The generated code for marshalling an ANSI string will have the equivalent behavior of `BestFitMapping=false` and `ThrowOnUnmappableChar=false`.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.ExactSpelling> has no equivalent. This field was a Windows-centric setting and had no effect on non-Windows operating systems. The method name or <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute.EntryPoint> should be the exact spelling of the entry point name. This field has historical uses related to the [`A` and `W` suffixes](/windows/win32/intl/unicode-in-the-windows-api) used in Win32 programming.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute.PreserveSig> has no equivalent. This field was a Windows-centric setting. The generated code always directly translates the signature.
- The project must be marked unsafe using [AllowUnsafeBlocks](../../csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/language.md#allowunsafeblocks).

There are also differences in support for some settings on <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute>, default marshalling of certain types, and other interop-related attributes. For more information, see our [documentation on compatibility differences](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/libraries/LibraryImportGenerator/Compatibility.md).

## See also

- [P/Invoke](pinvoke.md)
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute>
- [SYSLIB diagnostics for P/Invoke source generation](../../fundamentals/syslib-diagnostics/syslib1050-1069.md)
