docs/core/compatibility/sdk/8.0/custombuildeventargs.md, before:

---
title: "Breaking change: MSBuild custom derived build events deprecated"
description: Learn about the breaking change in MSBuild where custom derived build events have been deprecated.
ms.date: 09/05/2023
---
# MSBuild custom derived build events deprecated

Custom derived build events of any subclass of <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.BuildEventArgs> by any build extensibility (mainly custom tasks) have been deprecated.

## Previous behavior

Previously, you could derive from any subclass of <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.BuildEventArgs> and use those types freely in custom tasks and other build extensibility points.

## New behavior

Starting in .NET 8, a build error is issued if your code uses any type derived from <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.BuildEventArgs> and you build using the .NET 8 version of MSBuild, that is, from the command line:

> Usage of unsecure BinaryFormatter during serialization of custom event type 'MyCustomBuildEventArgs'. This will be deprecated soon. Please use Extended*EventArgs instead. More info: <https://aka.ms/msbuild/eventargs>

Starting from Visual Studio version 17.10, the same behavior applies to builds in Visual Studio.

## Version introduced

.NET 8 RC 1

## Type of change

This change is a [behavioral change](../../categories.md#behavioral-change).

## Reason for change

<xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> serialization is obsolete in .NET 8 and later versions. Any use of <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> is deemed insecure and throws an exception at run time. Since MSBuild custom derived build events use <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter>, your build would crash if you used these events in your build. The new build error provides a more graceful failure.

## Recommended action

Use one of the following newly introduced, built-in events for extensibility instead of your custom derived build event:

- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedCustomBuildEventArgs>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedBuildErrorEventArgs>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedBuildMessageEventArgs>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedBuildWarningEventArgs>

Alternatively, you can temporarily disable the check by explicitly setting the environment variable `MSBUILDCUSTOMBUILDEVENTWARNING` to something other than `1`.

## Affected APIs

- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.CustomBuildEventArgs?displayProperty=fullName>

Commit message:

Add alternative error message for SEO (#48477)
Updated the error message regarding the deprecation of custom event types in .NET 10.

docs/core/compatibility/sdk/8.0/custombuildeventargs.md, after:

---
title: "Breaking change: MSBuild custom derived build events deprecated"
description: Learn about the breaking change in MSBuild where custom derived build events have been deprecated.
ms.date: 09/05/2023
---
# MSBuild custom derived build events deprecated

Custom derived build events of any subclass of <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.BuildEventArgs> by any build extensibility (mainly custom tasks) have been deprecated.

## Previous behavior

Previously, you could derive from any subclass of <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.BuildEventArgs> and use those types freely in custom tasks and other build extensibility points.

## New behavior

Starting in .NET 8, a build error is issued if your code uses any type derived from <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.BuildEventArgs> and you build using the .NET 8 version of MSBuild, that is, from the command line:

> Usage of unsecure BinaryFormatter during serialization of custom event type 'MyCustomBuildEventArgs'. This will be deprecated soon. Please use Extended*EventArgs instead. More info: <https://aka.ms/msbuild/eventargs>.

In .NET 10, the error message was changed to:

> Custom event type 'MyCustomBuildEventArgs' is not supported as all custom event types were deprecated. Please use Extended*EventArgs instead. More info: <https://aka.ms/msbuild/eventargs>.

Starting from Visual Studio version 17.10, the same behavior applies to builds in Visual Studio.

## Version introduced

.NET 8 RC 1

## Type of change

This change is a [behavioral change](../../categories.md#behavioral-change).

## Reason for change

<xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> serialization is obsolete in .NET 8 and later versions. Any use of <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> is deemed insecure and throws an exception at run time. Since MSBuild custom derived build events use <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter>, your build would crash if you used these events in your build. The new build error provides a more graceful failure.

## Recommended action

Use one of the following newly introduced, built-in events for extensibility instead of your custom derived build event:

- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedCustomBuildEventArgs>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedBuildErrorEventArgs>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedBuildMessageEventArgs>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.ExtendedBuildWarningEventArgs>

Alternatively, you can temporarily disable the check by explicitly setting the environment variable `MSBUILDCUSTOMBUILDEVENTWARNING` to something other than `1`.

## Affected APIs

- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Framework.CustomBuildEventArgs?displayProperty=fullName>
