---
title: "Tracing"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
ms.prod: ".net-framework"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "dotnet-clr"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 2649eae2-dbf8-421c-9cfb-cfa9e01de87f
caps.latest.revision: 12
author: "dotnet-bot"
ms.author: "dotnetcontent"
manager: "wpickett"
ms.workload: 
  - "dotnet"
---
# Tracing
[!INCLUDE[indigo1](../../../../../includes/indigo1-md.md)] provides application instrumentation and diagnostic data for fault monitoring and analysis. You can use tracing instead of a debugger to understand how an application is behaving, or why it faults. You can also correlate faults and processing across components to provide an end-to-end experience.  
  
 [!INCLUDE[indigo2](../../../../../includes/indigo2-md.md)] outputs the following data for diagnostic tracing:  
  
-   Traces for process milestones across all components of the applications, such as operation calls, code exceptions, warnings and other significant processing events."  
  
-   Windows error events when the tracing feature malfunctions.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Configuring Tracing](../../../../../docs/framework/wcf/diagnostics/tracing/configuring-tracing.md)  
  
 This topic describes how you can configure tracing at different levels to suit your specific need.  
  
 [End-to-End Tracing](../../../../../docs/framework/wcf/diagnostics/tracing/end-to-end-tracing.md)  
  
 This section describes how you can use Activity Tracing and Propagation for end-to-end correlation to assist debugging.  
  
 [Using Tracing to Troubleshoot Your Application](../../../../../docs/framework/wcf/diagnostics/tracing/using-tracing-to-troubleshoot-your-application.md)  
  
 This section describes how you can use tracing to debug your application.  
  
 [Security Concerns and Useful Tips for Tracing](../../../../../docs/framework/wcf/diagnostics/tracing/security-concerns-and-useful-tips-for-tracing.md)  
  
 This topic describes how you can protect sensitive information from being exposed, as well as useful tips when using WebHost.  
  
 [Traces Reference](../../../../../docs/framework/wcf/diagnostics/tracing/traces-reference.md)  
  
 This topic lists all the traces generated by [!INCLUDE[indigo2](../../../../../includes/indigo2-md.md)].  
  
## See Also  
 [Service Trace Viewer Tool (SvcTraceViewer.exe)](../../../../../docs/framework/wcf/service-trace-viewer-tool-svctraceviewer-exe.md)
