docs/visual-basic/programming-guide/program-structure/me-my-mybase-and-myclass.md, before:

---
description: "Learn more about: Me, My, MyBase, and MyClass in Visual Basic"
title: "Me, My, MyBase, and MyClass"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
f1_keywords: 
  - "MyClass"
  - "vb.Me"
  - "MyBase"
  - "vb.MyBase"
  - "Me"
  - "vb.MyClass"
  - "vb.This"
  - "vb.My"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "My object"
  - "self-reference [Visual Basic], Me keyword"
  - "MyClass keyword [Visual Basic], relationship to similar programming elements"
  - "Me keyword [Visual Basic], relationship to similar programming elements"
  - "Me keyword [Visual Basic], referring to the current instance of an object"
  - "Me keyword [Visual Basic]"
  - "self-reference"
  - "current instance [Visual Basic], Me keyword"
  - "MyBase keyword [Visual Basic], relationship to similar programming elements"
ms.assetid: f8e241ae-b1ed-4886-9aa0-08c632154029
---
# Me, My, MyBase, and MyClass in Visual Basic

`Me`, `My`, `MyBase`, and `MyClass` in Visual Basic have similar names, but different purposes. This topic describes each of these entities in order to distinguish them.  
  
## Me  

 The `Me` keyword provides a way to refer to the specific instance of a class or structure in which the code is currently executing. `Me` behaves like either an object variable or a structure variable referring to the current instance. Using `Me` is particularly useful for passing information about the currently executing instance of a class or structure to a procedure in another class, structure, or module.  
  
 For example, suppose you have the following procedure in a module.  
  
```vb  
Sub ChangeFormColor(FormName As Form)  
   Randomize()  
   FormName.BackColor = Color.FromArgb(Rnd() * 256, Rnd() * 256, Rnd() * 256)  
End Sub  
```  
  
 You can call this procedure and pass the current instance of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> class as an argument by using the following statement.  
  
```vb  
ChangeFormColor(Me)  
```  
  
## My  

 The `My` feature provides easy and intuitive access to a number of .NET Framework classes, enabling the Visual Basic user to interact with the computer, application, settings, resources, and so on.  
  
## MyBase  

 The `MyBase` keyword behaves like an object variable referring to the base class of the current instance of a class. `MyBase` is commonly used to access base class members that are overridden or shadowed in a derived class. `MyBase.New` is used to explicitly call a base class constructor from a derived class constructor.  
  
## MyClass  

 The `MyClass` keyword behaves like an object variable referring to the current instance of a class as originally implemented. `MyClass` is similar to `Me`, but all method calls on it are treated as if the method were `NotOverridable`.  
  
## See also

- [Inheritance Basics](../language-features/objects-and-classes/inheritance-basics.md)

Commit message:

Add link to the list of available run-time objects (#34854)
* Add link to the list of available run-time objects

That list contains (amongst others) all links to My.Xyz such as My.Computer, My.Application, etc. Fixes #34734

* Add file name to link

docs/visual-basic/programming-guide/program-structure/me-my-mybase-and-myclass.md, after:

---
description: "Learn more about: Me, My, MyBase, and MyClass in Visual Basic"
title: "Me, My, MyBase, and MyClass"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
f1_keywords: 
  - "MyClass"
  - "vb.Me"
  - "MyBase"
  - "vb.MyBase"
  - "Me"
  - "vb.MyClass"
  - "vb.This"
  - "vb.My"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "My object"
  - "self-reference [Visual Basic], Me keyword"
  - "MyClass keyword [Visual Basic], relationship to similar programming elements"
  - "Me keyword [Visual Basic], relationship to similar programming elements"
  - "Me keyword [Visual Basic], referring to the current instance of an object"
  - "Me keyword [Visual Basic]"
  - "self-reference"
  - "current instance [Visual Basic], Me keyword"
  - "MyBase keyword [Visual Basic], relationship to similar programming elements"
ms.assetid: f8e241ae-b1ed-4886-9aa0-08c632154029
---
# Me, My, MyBase, and MyClass in Visual Basic

`Me`, `My`, `MyBase`, and `MyClass` in Visual Basic have similar names, but different purposes. This topic describes each of these entities in order to distinguish them.  
  
## Me  

 The `Me` keyword provides a way to refer to the specific instance of a class or structure in which the code is currently executing. `Me` behaves like either an object variable or a structure variable referring to the current instance. Using `Me` is particularly useful for passing information about the currently executing instance of a class or structure to a procedure in another class, structure, or module.  
  
 For example, suppose you have the following procedure in a module.  
  
```vb  
Sub ChangeFormColor(FormName As Form)  
   Randomize()  
   FormName.BackColor = Color.FromArgb(Rnd() * 256, Rnd() * 256, Rnd() * 256)  
End Sub  
```  
  
 You can call this procedure and pass the current instance of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> class as an argument by using the following statement.  
  
```vb  
ChangeFormColor(Me)  
```  
  
## My  

 The `My` feature provides easy and intuitive access to a number of .NET Framework classes, enabling the Visual Basic user to interact with the computer, application, settings, resources, and so on. For a list of these classes, see the [Visual Basic Run-time Objects](../../language-reference/objects/index.md#visual-basic-run-time-objects) reference.  
  
## MyBase  

 The `MyBase` keyword behaves like an object variable referring to the base class of the current instance of a class. `MyBase` is commonly used to access base class members that are overridden or shadowed in a derived class. `MyBase.New` is used to explicitly call a base class constructor from a derived class constructor.  
  
## MyClass  

 The `MyClass` keyword behaves like an object variable referring to the current instance of a class as originally implemented. `MyClass` is similar to `Me`, but all method calls on it are treated as if the method were `NotOverridable`.  
  
## See also

- [Inheritance Basics](../language-features/objects-and-classes/inheritance-basics.md)
