docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0062.md, before:

---
title: "IDE0062: Make local function static"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule IDE0062: Make local function static"
ms.date: 09/30/2020
f1_keywords:
- IDE0062
- csharp_prefer_static_local_function
helpviewer_keywords:
- IDE0062
- csharp_prefer_static_local_function
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
---
# Make local function static (IDE0062)

| Property                 | Value                                 |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**              | IDE0062                               |
| **Title**                | Make local function static            |
| **Category**             | Style                                 |
| **Subcategory**          | Language rules (modifier preferences) |
| **Applicable languages** | C# 8.0+                               |
| **Options**              | `csharp_prefer_static_local_function` |

## Overview

This style rule concerns the preference of marking [local functions](../../../csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/local-functions.md) as `static` or not.

## Options

Options specify the behavior that you want the rule to enforce. For information about configuring options, see [Option format](language-rules.md#option-format).

### csharp_prefer_static_local_function

| Property                 | Value                               | Description                                        |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | csharp_prefer_static_local_function |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                              | Prefer local functions to be marked `static`       |
|                          | `false`                             | Prefer local functions *not* to be marked `static` |
| **Default option value** | `true:suggestion`                   |                                                    |

```csharp
// csharp_prefer_static_local_function = true
void M()
{
    Hello();
    static void Hello()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Hello");
    }
}

// csharp_prefer_static_local_function = false
void M()
{
    Hello();
    void Hello()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Hello");
    }
}
```

## Suppress a warning

If you want to suppress only a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable IDE0062
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore IDE0062
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.IDE0062.severity = none
```

To disable all of the code-style rules, set the severity for the category `Style` to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Style.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## See also

- [Code style language rules](language-rules.md)
- [Code style rules reference](index.md)

Commit message:

Update overview of static local functions rule
Clarify the purpose of the style rule regarding static local functions and memory allocation.

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0062.md, after:

---
title: "IDE0062: Make local function static"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule IDE0062: Make local function static"
ms.date: 09/30/2020
f1_keywords:
- IDE0062
- csharp_prefer_static_local_function
helpviewer_keywords:
- IDE0062
- csharp_prefer_static_local_function
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
---
# Make local function static (IDE0062)

| Property                 | Value                                 |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**              | IDE0062                               |
| **Title**                | Make local function static            |
| **Category**             | Style                                 |
| **Subcategory**          | Language rules (modifier preferences) |
| **Applicable languages** | C# 8.0+                               |
| **Options**              | `csharp_prefer_static_local_function` |

## Overview

This style rule flags [local functions](../../../csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/local-functions.md) that can be marked `static`. Marking them as `static` prevents local variables from being captured, which would result in a memory allocation.

## Options

Options specify the behavior that you want the rule to enforce. For information about configuring options, see [Option format](language-rules.md#option-format).

### csharp_prefer_static_local_function

| Property                 | Value                               | Description                                        |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | csharp_prefer_static_local_function |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                              | Prefer local functions to be marked `static`       |
|                          | `false`                             | Prefer local functions *not* to be marked `static` |
| **Default option value** | `true:suggestion`                   |                                                    |

```csharp
// csharp_prefer_static_local_function = true
void M()
{
    Hello();
    static void Hello()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Hello");
    }
}

// csharp_prefer_static_local_function = false
void M()
{
    Hello();
    void Hello()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Hello");
    }
}
```

## Suppress a warning

If you want to suppress only a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable IDE0062
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore IDE0062
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.IDE0062.severity = none
```

To disable all of the code-style rules, set the severity for the category `Style` to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Style.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## See also

- [Code style language rules](language-rules.md)
- [Code style rules reference](index.md)
