---
title: Code style formatting rule IDE0055
description: Learn about using code-style rule IDE0055 to format indentations, spaces, and new lines.
ms.date: 06/13/2022
ms.topic: reference
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
f1_keywords:
- IDE0055
- formatting rules
helpviewer_keywords:
- IDE0055
- formatting code style rules [EditorConfig]
- formatting rules
- EditorConfig formatting options
---
# Formatting rule (IDE0055)

All formatting options have rule ID IDE0055 and title `Fix formatting`. These formatting options affect how indentation, spaces, and new lines are aligned around .NET programming language constructs. The options fall into the following categories and are documented on separate pages:

- [.NET formatting options](dotnet-formatting-options.md)

  Options that apply to both C# and Visual Basic. The EditorConfig names for these options start with the `dotnet_` prefix.

- [C# formatting options](csharp-formatting-options.md)

  Options that are specific to the C# language. The EditorConfig names for these options start with the `csharp_` prefix.

When you set the severity of code-style rule IDE0055, it applies to all the formatting options. To set the severity of a formatting rule violation, add the following setting to a [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
dotnet_diagnostic.IDE0055.severity = <severity value>
```

The severity value must be `warning` or `error` to be [enforced on build](../overview.md#code-style-analysis). For all possible severity values, see [severity level](../configuration-options.md#severity-level).

## Option format

Options for formatting rules can be specified in an EditorConfig file or other [configuration file](../configuration-files.md) with the following format:

`rule_name = value`

For many rules, you specify either `true` (prefer this style) or `false` (do not prefer this style) for `value`. For other rules, you specify a value such as `flush_left` or `before_and_after` to describe when and where to apply the rule. You don't specify a severity.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable IDE0055
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore IDE0055
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.IDE0055.severity = none
```

To disable all of the code-style rules, set the severity for the category `Style` to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Style.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## See also

- [.NET formatting options](dotnet-formatting-options.md)
- [C# formatting options](csharp-formatting-options.md)
- [Language rules](language-rules.md)
- [Naming rules](naming-rules.md)
- [.NET code style rules reference](index.md)
