docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0130.md, before:

---
title: "IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
ms.date: 12/05/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IDE0130
helpviewer_keywords:
- IDE0130
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# Namespace does not match folder structure (IDE0130)

| Property                 | Value                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Rule ID**              | IDE0130                                                |
| **Title**                | Namespace does not match folder structure              |
| **Category**             | Style                                                  |
| **Subcategory**          | Language rules (Namespace naming preferences)          |
| **Applicable languages** | C# and Visual Basic                                    |
| **Options**              | `dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder`                  |

## Overview

This style rule uses the folder structure of the project to enforce namespace naming requirements.

## Options

Options specify the behavior that you want the rule to enforce. For information about configuring options, see [Option format](language-rules.md#option-format).

### dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder

| Property                 | Value                                                | Description                                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder                  |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                                               | Prefer namespace naming to match folder structure. |
|                          | `false`                                              | Disables the rule.                                 |
| **Default option value** | `true`                                               |                                                    |

## Example

Assume that the following code snippets are from a file named `Data/Example.cs` or `Data/Example.vb`, where `Data` represents the folder structure from the project file. The folder structure naming is added to the root namespace, which in this example is `Root`.

```csharp
// Code with violations
namespace Root.BadExample
{
    class Example
    {
        public void M()
        {
        }
    }
}

// Fixed code
namespace Root.Data
{
    class Example
    {
        public void M()
        {
        }
    }
}
```

```vb
' Code with violations
Namespace Root.BadExample
    Class Example
        Public Sub M()
        End Sub
    End Class
End Namespace

' Fixed code
Namespace Root.Data
    Class Example
        Public Sub M()
        End Sub
    End Class
End Namespace
```

## Suppress a warning

If you want to suppress only a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable IDE0130
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore IDE0130
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.IDE0130.severity = none
```

To disable all of the code-style rules, set the severity for the category `Style` to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Style.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## See also

- [Language rules](language-rules.md)
- [Code style rules reference](index.md)

Commit message:

Add note about required build properties

docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0130.md, after:

---
title: "IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
ms.date: 12/05/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IDE0130
helpviewer_keywords:
- IDE0130
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---
# Namespace does not match folder structure (IDE0130)

| Property                 | Value                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Rule ID**              | IDE0130                                                |
| **Title**                | Namespace does not match folder structure              |
| **Category**             | Style                                                  |
| **Subcategory**          | Language rules (Namespace naming preferences)          |
| **Applicable languages** | C# and Visual Basic                                    |
| **Options**              | `dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder`                  |

## Overview

This style rule uses the folder structure of the project to enforce namespace naming requirements.

## Options

Options specify the behavior that you want the rule to enforce. For information about configuring options, see [Option format](language-rules.md#option-format).

### dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder

| Property                 | Value                                                | Description                                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder                  |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                                               | Prefer namespace naming to match folder structure. |
|                          | `false`                                              | Disables the rule.                                 |
| **Default option value** | `true`                                               |                                                    |

> [!NOTE]
> `dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder` depends on knowing the current project and root namespace properties. This is provided by Visual Studio but not done in command line builds. For command line builds, such as `dotnet build` to work, you must add the following properties to your `.editorconfig`.
> ```ini
> is_global=true
> build_property.ProjectDir = <root directory>
> build_property.RootNamespace = <root namespace>
> ```

## Example

Assume that the following code snippets are from a file named `Data/Example.cs` or `Data/Example.vb`, where `Data` represents the folder structure from the project file. The folder structure naming is added to the root namespace, which in this example is `Root`.

```csharp
// Code with violations
namespace Root.BadExample
{
    class Example
    {
        public void M()
        {
        }
    }
}

// Fixed code
namespace Root.Data
{
    class Example
    {
        public void M()
        {
        }
    }
}
```

```vb
' Code with violations
Namespace Root.BadExample
    Class Example
        Public Sub M()
        End Sub
    End Class
End Namespace

' Fixed code
Namespace Root.Data
    Class Example
        Public Sub M()
        End Sub
    End Class
End Namespace
```

## Suppress a warning

If you want to suppress only a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp
#pragma warning disable IDE0130
// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.
#pragma warning restore IDE0130
```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_diagnostic.IDE0130.severity = none
```

To disable all of the code-style rules, set the severity for the category `Style` to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-Style.severity = none
```

For more information, see [How to suppress code analysis warnings](../suppress-warnings.md).

## See also

- [Language rules](language-rules.md)
- [Code style rules reference](index.md)
