docs/core/compatibility/10.0.md, before:

---
title: Breaking changes in .NET 10
titleSuffix: ""
description: Navigate to the breaking changes in .NET 10.
ms.date: 06/05/2025
ai-usage: ai-assisted
no-loc: [Blazor, Razor, Kestrel]
---
# Breaking changes in .NET 10

If you're migrating an app to .NET 10, the breaking changes listed here might affect you. Changes are grouped by technology area, such as ASP.NET Core or Windows Forms.

[!INCLUDE [binary-source-behavioral](includes/binary-source-behavioral.md)]

> [!NOTE]
> This article is a work in progress. It's not a complete list of breaking changes in .NET 10.

## Containers

| Title                                                                          | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [Default .NET images use Ubuntu](containers/10.0/default-images-use-ubuntu.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1          |

## Core .NET libraries

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [ActivitySource.CreateActivity and ActivitySource.StartActivity behavior change](core-libraries/10.0/activity-sampling.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [C# 14 overload resolution with span parameters](core-libraries/10.0/csharp-overload-resolution.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [Consistent shift behavior in generic math](core-libraries/10.0/generic-math.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [Default trace context propagator updated to W3C standard](core-libraries/10.0/default-trace-context-propagator.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 4 |
| [DriveInfo.DriveFormat returns Linux filesystem types](core-libraries/10.0/driveinfo-driveformat-linux.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [LDAP DirectoryControl parsing is now more stringent](core-libraries/10.0/ldap-directorycontrol-parsing.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [MacCatalyst version normalization](core-libraries/10.0/maccatalyst-version-normalization.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [.NET runtime no longer provides default SIGTERM signal handler](core-libraries/10.0/sigterm-signal-handler.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 5 |
| [System.Linq.AsyncEnumerable included in core libraries](core-libraries/10.0/asyncenumerable.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [YMM embedded rounding removed from AVX10.2](core-libraries/10.0/ymm-embedded-rounding.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 5 |

## Extensions

| Title | Type of change      | Introduced version |
|-------|---------------------|--------------------|
| [ProviderAliasAttribute moved to Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Abstractions assembly](extensions/10.0/provideraliasattribute-moved-assembly.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 4 |
| [Removed DynamicallyAccessedMembers annotation from trim-unsafe Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration code](extensions/10.0/dynamically-accessed-members-configuration.md) | Binary incompatible | Preview 6 |

## Globalization

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [Environment variable renamed to DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE](globalization/10.0/version-override.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |

## Cryptography

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [OpenSSL cryptographic primitives aren't supported on macOS](cryptography/10.0/openssl-macos-unsupported.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [X500DistinguishedName validation is stricter](cryptography/10.0/x500distinguishedname-validation.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [X509Certificate and PublicKey key parameters can be null](cryptography/10.0/x509-publickey-null.md) | Behavioral/source incompatible change | Preview 3 |
| [Environment variable renamed to DOTNET_OPENSSL_VERSION_OVERRIDE](cryptography/10.0/version-override.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |

## Interop

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [Single-file apps no longer look for native libraries in executable directory](interop/10.0/native-library-search.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [Specifying DllImportSearchPath.AssemblyDirectory only searches the assembly directory](interop/10.0/search-assembly-directory.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 5 |

## Networking

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [HTTP/3 support disabled by default with PublishTrimmed](networking/10.0/http3-disabled-with-publishtrimmed.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 6 |
| [HttpClient/SslStream default certificate revocation check mode changed to Online](networking/10.0/ssl-certificate-revocation-check-default.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [Streaming HTTP responses enabled by default in browser HTTP clients](networking/10.0/default-http-streaming.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 3 |

## SDK and MSBuild

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [.NET CLI `--interactive` defaults to `true` in user scenarios](sdk/10.0/dotnet-cli-interactive.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 3 |
| [Default workload configuration from 'loose manifests' to 'workload sets' mode](sdk/10.0/default-workload-config.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 2 |
| [`dotnet package list` performs restore](sdk/10.0/dotnet-package-list-restore.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 4 |
| [`dotnet restore` audits transitive packages](sdk/10.0/nugetaudit-transitive-packages.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 3 |
| [MSBUILDCUSTOMBUILDEVENTWARNING escape hatch removed](sdk/10.0/custom-build-event-warning.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [MSBuild custom culture resource handling](sdk/10.0/msbuild-custom-culture.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [NU1510 is raised for direct references pruned by NuGet](sdk/10.0/nu1510-pruned-references.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [PackageReference without a version raises an error](sdk/10.0/nu1015-packagereference-version.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [HTTP warnings promoted to errors in `dotnet package list` and `dotnet package search`](sdk/10.0/http-warnings-to-errors.md) | Behavioral/source incompatible change | Preview 4 |
| [NUGET_ENABLE_ENHANCED_HTTP_RETRY environment variable removed](sdk/10.0/nuget-enhanced-http-retry-removed.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |

## Windows Forms

| Title                                                  | Type of change      | Introduced version |
|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|--------------------|
| [API obsoletions](windows-forms/10.0/obsolete-apis.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1          |
| [Applications referencing both WPF and WinForms must disambiguate MenuItem and ContextMenu types](windows-forms/10.0/menuitem-contextmenu.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [Renamed parameter in HtmlElement.InsertAdjacentElement](windows-forms/10.0/insertadjacentelement-orientation.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [TreeView checkbox image truncation](windows-forms/10.0/treeview-text-location.md) | Behavioral change   | Preview 1 |
| [StatusStrip uses System RenderMode by default](windows-forms/10.0/statusstrip-renderer.md) | Behavioral change   | Preview 1 |

## Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)

| Title | Type of change                        | Introduced version |
|-------|---------------------------------------|--------------------|
| [Incorrect usage of DynamicResource causes application crash](wpf/10.0/dynamicresource-crash.md) | Source incompatible/behavioral change | Preview 4          |

Commit message:

Document breaking change: GnuTarEntry and PaxTarEntry no longer includes atime and ctime by default (#46588)

docs/core/compatibility/10.0.md, after:

---
title: Breaking changes in .NET 10
titleSuffix: ""
description: Navigate to the breaking changes in .NET 10.
ms.date: 06/05/2025
ai-usage: ai-assisted
no-loc: [Blazor, Razor, Kestrel]
---
# Breaking changes in .NET 10

If you're migrating an app to .NET 10, the breaking changes listed here might affect you. Changes are grouped by technology area, such as ASP.NET Core or Windows Forms.

[!INCLUDE [binary-source-behavioral](includes/binary-source-behavioral.md)]

> [!NOTE]
> This article is a work in progress. It's not a complete list of breaking changes in .NET 10.

## Containers

| Title                                                                          | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [Default .NET images use Ubuntu](containers/10.0/default-images-use-ubuntu.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1          |

## Core .NET libraries

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [ActivitySource.CreateActivity and ActivitySource.StartActivity behavior change](core-libraries/10.0/activity-sampling.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [C# 14 overload resolution with span parameters](core-libraries/10.0/csharp-overload-resolution.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [Consistent shift behavior in generic math](core-libraries/10.0/generic-math.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [Default trace context propagator updated to W3C standard](core-libraries/10.0/default-trace-context-propagator.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 4 |
| [DriveInfo.DriveFormat returns Linux filesystem types](core-libraries/10.0/driveinfo-driveformat-linux.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [GnuTarEntry and PaxTarEntry no longer includes atime and ctime by default](core-libraries/10.0/tar-atime-ctime-default.md) | Behavioral change   | Preview 5          |
| [LDAP DirectoryControl parsing is now more stringent](core-libraries/10.0/ldap-directorycontrol-parsing.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [MacCatalyst version normalization](core-libraries/10.0/maccatalyst-version-normalization.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [.NET runtime no longer provides default SIGTERM signal handler](core-libraries/10.0/sigterm-signal-handler.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 5 |
| [System.Linq.AsyncEnumerable included in core libraries](core-libraries/10.0/asyncenumerable.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [YMM embedded rounding removed from AVX10.2](core-libraries/10.0/ymm-embedded-rounding.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 5 |

## Extensions

| Title | Type of change      | Introduced version |
|-------|---------------------|--------------------|
| [ProviderAliasAttribute moved to Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Abstractions assembly](extensions/10.0/provideraliasattribute-moved-assembly.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 4 |
| [Removed DynamicallyAccessedMembers annotation from trim-unsafe Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration code](extensions/10.0/dynamically-accessed-members-configuration.md) | Binary incompatible | Preview 6 |

## Globalization

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [Environment variable renamed to DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE](globalization/10.0/version-override.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |

## Cryptography

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [OpenSSL cryptographic primitives aren't supported on macOS](cryptography/10.0/openssl-macos-unsupported.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [X500DistinguishedName validation is stricter](cryptography/10.0/x500distinguishedname-validation.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [X509Certificate and PublicKey key parameters can be null](cryptography/10.0/x509-publickey-null.md) | Behavioral/source incompatible change | Preview 3 |
| [Environment variable renamed to DOTNET_OPENSSL_VERSION_OVERRIDE](cryptography/10.0/version-override.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |

## Interop

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [Single-file apps no longer look for native libraries in executable directory](interop/10.0/native-library-search.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [Specifying DllImportSearchPath.AssemblyDirectory only searches the assembly directory](interop/10.0/search-assembly-directory.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 5 |

## Networking

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [HTTP/3 support disabled by default with PublishTrimmed](networking/10.0/http3-disabled-with-publishtrimmed.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 6 |
| [HttpClient/SslStream default certificate revocation check mode changed to Online](networking/10.0/ssl-certificate-revocation-check-default.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [Streaming HTTP responses enabled by default in browser HTTP clients](networking/10.0/default-http-streaming.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 3 |

## SDK and MSBuild

| Title | Type of change    | Introduced version |
|-------|-------------------|--------------------|
| [.NET CLI `--interactive` defaults to `true` in user scenarios](sdk/10.0/dotnet-cli-interactive.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 3 |
| [Default workload configuration from 'loose manifests' to 'workload sets' mode](sdk/10.0/default-workload-config.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 2 |
| [`dotnet package list` performs restore](sdk/10.0/dotnet-package-list-restore.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 4 |
| [`dotnet restore` audits transitive packages](sdk/10.0/nugetaudit-transitive-packages.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 3 |
| [MSBUILDCUSTOMBUILDEVENTWARNING escape hatch removed](sdk/10.0/custom-build-event-warning.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [MSBuild custom culture resource handling](sdk/10.0/msbuild-custom-culture.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 1 |
| [NU1510 is raised for direct references pruned by NuGet](sdk/10.0/nu1510-pruned-references.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [PackageReference without a version raises an error](sdk/10.0/nu1015-packagereference-version.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |
| [HTTP warnings promoted to errors in `dotnet package list` and `dotnet package search`](sdk/10.0/http-warnings-to-errors.md) | Behavioral/source incompatible change | Preview 4 |
| [NUGET_ENABLE_ENHANCED_HTTP_RETRY environment variable removed](sdk/10.0/nuget-enhanced-http-retry-removed.md) | Behavioral change | Preview 6 |

## Windows Forms

| Title                                                  | Type of change      | Introduced version |
|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|--------------------|
| [API obsoletions](windows-forms/10.0/obsolete-apis.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1          |
| [Applications referencing both WPF and WinForms must disambiguate MenuItem and ContextMenu types](windows-forms/10.0/menuitem-contextmenu.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [Renamed parameter in HtmlElement.InsertAdjacentElement](windows-forms/10.0/insertadjacentelement-orientation.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1 |
| [TreeView checkbox image truncation](windows-forms/10.0/treeview-text-location.md) | Behavioral change   | Preview 1 |
| [StatusStrip uses System RenderMode by default](windows-forms/10.0/statusstrip-renderer.md) | Behavioral change   | Preview 1 |

## Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)

| Title | Type of change                        | Introduced version |
|-------|---------------------------------------|--------------------|
| [Incorrect usage of DynamicResource causes application crash](wpf/10.0/dynamicresource-crash.md) | Source incompatible/behavioral change | Preview 4          |
