docs/core/compatibility/2.2-3.0.md, before:

---
title: Breaking changes, version 2.2 to 3.0 - .NET Core
description: Lists the breaking changes from version 2.2 to version 3.0 of .NET Core, ASP.NET Core, and EF Core.
ms.date: "09/10/2019"
author: "rpetrusha"
ms.author: "ronpet"
---
# Breaking changes for migration from Version 2.2 to 3.0

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This article is under construction. This is not a complete list of .NET Core breaking changes. For more information on .NET Core breaking changes, you can examine individual [breaking changes issues](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abreaking-change) in the dotnet/docs repository on GitHub. 

If you are migrating from version 2.2 to version 3.0 of .NET Core, ASP.NET Core, or EF Core, review the following topics for breaking changes that may affect your app:

## CoreFx

[!INCLUDE[APIs that report version now report product and not file version](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/version-information-changes.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Custom EncoderFallbackBuffer instances cannot fall back recursively](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/custom-encoderfallbackbuffer-cannot-be-recursive.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Floating point formatting and parsing behavior changes](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/floating-point-changes.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[InvalidAsynchronousStateException moved to another assembly](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/move-invalidasynchronousstateexception.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[NET Core 3.0 follows Unicode best practices when replacing ill-formed UTF-8 byte sequences](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/net-core-3-0-follows-unicode-utf8-best-practices.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[TypeDescriptionProviderAttribute moved to another assembly](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/move-typedescriptionproviderattribute.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[ZipArchiveEntry no longer handles archives with inconsistent entry sizes](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/ziparchiveentry-and-inconsistent-entry-sizes.md)]

## Cryptography

[!INCLUDE[EnvelopedCms defaults to AES-256 encryption](~/includes/core-changes/cryptography/envelopedcms-defaults-to-aes256.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Minimum size for RSAOpenSsl key generation has increased](~/includes/core-changes/cryptography/minimum-rsaopenssl-key-size-change.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[.NET Core 3.0 prefers OpenSSL 1.1.x to OpenSSL 1.0.x](~/includes/core-changes/cryptography/net-core-3-0-prefers-openssl-1-1-x.md)]

## Globalization

[!INCLUDE["C" locale maps to the invariant locale](~/includes/core-changes/globalization/c-locale-maps-to-invariant-locale.md)]

## Visual Basic

[!INCLUDE[vbNewLine is obsolete](~/includes/core-changes/visualbasic/vbnewline-is-obsolete.md)]

## Entity Framework Core

[Entity Framework Core breaking changes](/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-3.0/breaking-changes)

Commit message:

Added/updated ASP.NET Core, EF Core links

docs/core/compatibility/2.2-3.0.md, after:

---
title: Breaking changes, version 2.2 to 3.0 - .NET Core
description: Lists the breaking changes from version 2.2 to version 3.0 of .NET Core, ASP.NET Core, and EF Core.
ms.date: "09/10/2019"
author: "rpetrusha"
ms.author: "ronpet"
---
# Breaking changes for migration from Version 2.2 to 3.0

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This article is under construction. This is not a complete list of .NET Core breaking changes. For more information on .NET Core breaking changes, you can examine individual [breaking changes issues](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abreaking-change) in the dotnet/docs repository on GitHub. 

If you are migrating from version 2.2 to version 3.0 of .NET Core, ASP.NET Core, or EF Core, review the following topics for breaking changes that may affect your app:

## CoreFx

[!INCLUDE[APIs that report version now report product and not file version](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/version-information-changes.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Custom EncoderFallbackBuffer instances cannot fall back recursively](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/custom-encoderfallbackbuffer-cannot-be-recursive.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Floating point formatting and parsing behavior changes](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/floating-point-changes.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[InvalidAsynchronousStateException moved to another assembly](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/move-invalidasynchronousstateexception.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[NET Core 3.0 follows Unicode best practices when replacing ill-formed UTF-8 byte sequences](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/net-core-3-0-follows-unicode-utf8-best-practices.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[TypeDescriptionProviderAttribute moved to another assembly](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/move-typedescriptionproviderattribute.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[ZipArchiveEntry no longer handles archives with inconsistent entry sizes](~/includes/core-changes/corefx/ziparchiveentry-and-inconsistent-entry-sizes.md)]

## Cryptography

[!INCLUDE[EnvelopedCms defaults to AES-256 encryption](~/includes/core-changes/cryptography/envelopedcms-defaults-to-aes256.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Minimum size for RSAOpenSsl key generation has increased](~/includes/core-changes/cryptography/minimum-rsaopenssl-key-size-change.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[.NET Core 3.0 prefers OpenSSL 1.1.x to OpenSSL 1.0.x](~/includes/core-changes/cryptography/net-core-3-0-prefers-openssl-1-1-x.md)]

## Globalization

[!INCLUDE["C" locale maps to the invariant locale](~/includes/core-changes/globalization/c-locale-maps-to-invariant-locale.md)]

## Visual Basic

[!INCLUDE[vbNewLine is obsolete](~/includes/core-changes/visualbasic/vbnewline-is-obsolete.md)]

## ASP.NET Core (on GitHub)

[ASP.NET breaking change announcements (on GitHub)](https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Breaking+change%22+label%3A3.0.0
)

## Entity Framework Core

[Entity Framework Core breaking changes](/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-3.0/breaking-changes)
