docs/core/compatibility/8.0.md, before:

---
title: Breaking changes in .NET 8
titleSuffix: ""
description: Navigate to the breaking changes in .NET 8.
ms.date: 04/10/2025
no-loc: [Blazor, Razor, Kestrel]
---
# Breaking changes in .NET 8

If you're migrating an app to .NET 8, the breaking changes listed here might affect you. Changes are grouped by technology area, such as ASP.NET Core or Windows Forms.

[!INCLUDE [binary-source-behavioral](includes/binary-source-behavioral.md)]

## ASP.NET Core

| Title                                                                                                | Type of change      |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [ConcurrencyLimiterMiddleware is obsolete](aspnet-core/8.0/concurrencylimitermiddleware-obsolete.md) | Source incompatible |
| [Custom converters for serialization removed](aspnet-core/8.0/problemdetails-custom-converters.md)   | Behavioral change   |
| [Forwarded Headers Middleware ignores X-Forwarded-* headers from unknown proxies](aspnet-core/8.0/forwarded-headers-unknown-proxies.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [HTTP logging middleware requires AddHttpLogging()](aspnet-core/8.0/httplogging-addhttplogging-requirement.md) | Behavioral change |
| [ISystemClock is obsolete](aspnet-core/8.0/isystemclock-obsolete.md)                                 | Source incompatible |
| [Minimal APIs: IFormFile parameters require anti-forgery checks](aspnet-core/8.0/antiforgery-checks.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [Rate-limiting middleware requires AddRateLimiter](aspnet-core/8.0/addratelimiter-requirement.md)    | Behavioral change   |
| [Security token events return a JsonWebToken](aspnet-core/8.0/securitytoken-events.md)               | Behavioral change   |
| [TrimMode defaults to full for Web SDK projects](aspnet-core/8.0/trimmode-full.md)                   | Source incompatible |

## Containers

| Title                                                                   | Type of change    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| ['ca-certificates' package removed from Alpine images](containers/8.0/ca-certificates-package.md) | Binary incompatible |
| [Debian container images upgraded to Debian 12](containers/8.0/debian-version.md) | Binary incompatible/behavioral change |
| [Default ASP.NET Core port changed to 8080](containers/8.0/aspnet-port.md) | Behavioral change |
| [Kerberos package removed from Alpine and Debian images](containers/8.0/krb5-libs-package.md) | Binary incompatible |
| ['libintl' package removed from Alpine images](containers/8.0/libintl-package.md) | Behavioral change |
| [Multi-platform container tags are Linux-only](containers/8.0/multi-platform-tags.md) | Behavioral change |
| [New 'app' user in Linux images](containers/8.0/app-user.md) | Behavioral change |

## Core .NET libraries

| Title                                                                                                     | Type of change      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [Activity operation name when null](core-libraries/8.0/activity-operation-name.md)                        | Behavioral change   |
| [AnonymousPipeServerStream.Dispose behavior](core-libraries/8.0/anonymouspipeserverstream-dispose.md)     | Behavioral change   |
| [API obsoletions with custom diagnostic IDs](core-libraries/8.0/obsolete-apis-with-custom-diagnostics.md) | Source incompatible |
| [Backslash mapping in Unix file paths](core-libraries/8.0/file-path-backslash.md)                         | Behavioral change   |
| [Base64.DecodeFromUtf8 methods ignore whitespace](core-libraries/8.0/decodefromutf8-whitespace.md)        | Behavioral change   |
| [Boolean-backed enum type support removed](core-libraries/8.0/bool-backed-enum.md)                        | Behavioral change   |
| [Complex.ToString format changed to `<a; b>`](core-libraries/8.0/complex-format.md)              | Behavioral change   |
| [Drive's current directory path enumeration](core-libraries/8.0/drive-current-dir-paths.md)              | Behavioral change   |
| [Enumerable.Sum throws new OverflowException for some inputs](core-libraries/8.0/enumerable-sum.md)       | Behavioral change   |
| [FileStream writes when pipe is closed](core-libraries/8.0/filestream-disposed-pipe.md)                   | Behavioral change   |
| [FindSystemTimeZoneById doesn't return new object](core-libraries/8.0/timezoneinfo-object.md)             | Behavioral change   |
| [GC.GetGeneration might return Int32.MaxValue](core-libraries/8.0/getgeneration-return-value.md)          | Behavioral change   |
| [GetFolderPath behavior on Unix](core-libraries/8.0/getfolderpath-unix.md)                                | Behavioral change   |
| [GetSystemVersion no longer returns ImageRuntimeVersion](core-libraries/8.0/getsystemversion.md)          | Behavioral change   |
| [ITypeDescriptorContext nullable annotations](core-libraries/8.0/itypedescriptorcontext-props.md)         | Source incompatible |
| [Legacy Console.ReadKey removed](core-libraries/8.0/console-readkey-legacy.md)                            | Behavioral change   |
| [Method builders generate parameters with HasDefaultValue set to false](core-libraries/8.0/parameterinfo-hasdefaultvalue.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [Package part URIs are now compared case-insensitively in System.IO.Packaging](core-libraries/8.0/system-io-packaging-case-insensitive-uri.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [ProcessStartInfo.WindowStyle honored when UseShellExecute is false](core-libraries/8.0/processstartinfo-windowstyle.md) | Behavioral change    |
| [RuntimeIdentifier returns platform for which runtime was built](core-libraries/8.0/runtimeidentifier.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [`Type.GetType` throws exception for all invalid element types](core-libraries/8.0/type-gettype.md) | Behavioral change   |

## Cryptography

| Title                                                                                                    | Type of change      | Introduced |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ---------- |
| [AesGcm authentication tag size on macOS](cryptography/8.0/aesgcm-auth-tag-size.md)                      | Behavioral change   | Preview 1  |
| [RSA.EncryptValue and RSA.DecryptValue obsolete](cryptography/8.0/rsa-encrypt-decrypt-value-obsolete.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1  |

## Deployment

| Title                                                                   | Type of change    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [Host determines RID-specific assets](deployment/8.0/rid-asset-list.md) | Binary incompatible/behavioral change |
| [.NET Monitor only includes distroless images](deployment/8.0/monitor-image.md) | Behavioral change |
| [StripSymbols defaults to true](deployment/8.0/stripsymbols-default.md) | Behavioral change |

## Entity Framework Core

[Breaking changes in EF Core 8](/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-8.0/breaking-changes)

## Extensions

| Title                                                                                                                             | Type of change    |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| [ActivatorUtilities.CreateInstance behaves consistently](extensions/8.0/activatorutilities-createinstance-behavior.md)            | Behavioral change |
| [ActivatorUtilities.CreateInstance requires non-null provider](extensions/8.0/activatorutilities-createinstance-null-provider.md) | Behavioral change |
| [ConfigurationBinder throws for mismatched value](extensions/8.0/configurationbinder-exceptions.md)                               | Behavioral change |
| [ConfigurationManager package no longer references System.Security.Permissions](extensions/8.0/configurationmanager-package.md)   | Source incompatible |
| [DirectoryServices package no longer references System.Security.Permissions](extensions/8.0/directoryservices-package.md)         | Source incompatible |
| [Empty keys added to dictionary by configuration binder](extensions/8.0/dictionary-configuration-binding.md)                      | Behavioral change |
| [FromKeyedServicesAttribute.Key can be null](extensions/8.0/fromkeyedservicesattribute-key-nullable.md)                           | Source incompatible |
| [HostApplicationBuilderSettings.Args respected by HostApplicationBuilder ctor](extensions/8.0/hostapplicationbuilder-ctor.md)     | Behavioral change |
| [ManagementDateTimeConverter.ToDateTime returns a local time](extensions/8.0/dmtf-todatetime.md)     | Behavioral change |
| [System.Formats.Cbor DateTimeOffset formatting change](extensions/8.0/cbor-datetime.md)              | Behavioral change |

## Globalization

| Title                                                                                             | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [Date and time converters honor culture argument](globalization/8.0/typeconverter-cultureinfo.md) | Behavioral change |
| [TwoDigitYearMax default is 2049](globalization/8.0/twodigityearmax-default.md)                   | Behavioral change |

## Interop

| Title                                                                                                         | Type of change      |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| [CreateObjectFlags.Unwrap only unwraps on target instance](interop/8.0/comwrappers-unwrap.md)                 | Behavioral change   |
| [Custom marshallers require additional members](interop/8.0/marshal-modes.md)                                 | Source incompatible |
| [IDispatchImplAttribute API is removed](interop/8.0/idispatchimplattribute-removed.md)                        | Binary incompatible |
| [JSFunctionBinding implicit public default constructor removed](interop/8.0/jsfunctionbinding-constructor.md) | Binary incompatible |
| [SafeHandle types must have public constructor](interop/8.0/safehandle-constructor.md)                        | Source incompatible |
| [Linux native library resolution no longer uses `netcoredeps`](interop/8.0/linux-netcoredeps.md)              | Behavioral change   |

## Networking

| Title                                                                                             | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [SendFile throws NotSupportedException for connectionless sockets](networking/8.0/sendfile-connectionless.md) | Behavioral change |
| [User info in `mailto:` URIs is compared](networking/8.0/uri-comparison.md) | Behavioral change |

## Reflection

| Title                                                                                             | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [IntPtr no longer used for function pointer types](reflection/8.0/function-pointer-reflection.md) | Behavioral change |

## SDK

| Title                                                                           | Type of change                                   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| [CLI console output uses UTF-8](sdk/8.0/console-encoding.md)                    | Behavioral change/Source and binary incompatible |
| [Console encoding not UTF-8 after completion](sdk/8.0/console-encoding-fix.md)  | Behavioral change/Binary incompatible            |
| [Containers default to use the 'latest' tag](sdk/8.0/default-image-tag.md)      | Behavioral change                                |
| ['dotnet pack' uses Release configuration](sdk/8.0/dotnet-pack-config.md)       | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| ['dotnet publish' uses Release configuration](sdk/8.0/dotnet-publish-config.md) | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| [Duplicate output for -getItem, -getProperty, and -getTargetResult](sdk/8.0/getx-duplicate-output.md) | Behavioral change            |
| [Implicit `using` for System.Net.Http no longer added](sdk/8.0/implicit-global-using-netfx.md) | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| [MSBuild custom derived build events deprecated](sdk/8.0/custombuildeventargs.md)              | Behavioral change                                |
| [MSBuild respects DOTNET_CLI_UI_LANGUAGE](sdk/8.0/msbuild-language.md)                         | Behavioral change                                |
| [Runtime-specific apps not self-contained](sdk/8.0/runtimespecific-app-default.md)             | Source/binary incompatible                       |
| [--arch option doesn't imply self-contained](sdk/8.0/arch-option.md)                           | Behavioral change                                |
| ['dotnet restore' produces security vulnerability warnings](sdk/8.0/dotnet-restore-audit.md)   | Behavioral change                                |
| ['dotnet list package' warns if source doesn't provide vulnerability data](sdk/8.0/dotnet-list-package-audit-source-warning.md) | Behavioral change                                |
| [SDK uses a smaller RID graph](sdk/8.0/rid-graph.md)                                           | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| [Setting DebugSymbols to false disables PDB generation](sdk/8.0/debugsymbols.md)               | Behavioral change                                |
| [Source Link included in the .NET SDK](sdk/8.0/source-link.md)                                 | Source incompatible                              |
| [Trimming may not be used with .NET Standard or .NET Framework](sdk/8.0/trimming-unsupported-targetframework.md) | Behavioral change                                |
| [Unlisted packages not installed by default for .NET tools](sdk/8.0/unlisted-versions.md)                         | Behavioral change                                |
| [.user file imported in outer builds](sdk/8.0/user-file.md)                   | Behavioral change |
| [Version requirements for .NET 8 SDK](sdk/8.0/version-requirements.md) | Source incompatible               |

## Serialization

| Title                                                                                       | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [BinaryFormatter disabled for most projects](serialization/8.0/binaryformatter-disabled.md) | Behavioral change |
| [PublishedTrimmed projects fail reflection-based serialization](serialization/8.0/publishtrimmed.md) | Behavioral change |
| [Reflection-based deserializer resolves metadata eagerly](serialization/8.0/metadata-resolving.md) | Behavioral change |

## Windows Forms

| Title                                                                                                    | Type of change      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [Certs checked before loading remote images in PictureBox](windows-forms/8.0/picturebox-remote-image.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [DateTimePicker.Text is empty string](windows-forms/8.0/datetimepicker-text.md)                          | Behavioral change   |
| [DefaultValueAttribute removed from some properties](windows-forms/8.0/defaultvalueattribute-removal.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [ExceptionCollection ctor throws ArgumentException](windows-forms/8.0/exceptioncollection.md)            | Behavioral change   |
| [Forms scale according to AutoScaleMode](windows-forms/8.0/top-level-window-scaling.md)                  | Behavioral change   |
| [ImageList.ColorDepth default is Depth32Bit](windows-forms/8.0/imagelist-colordepth.md)                  | Behavioral change   |
| [System.Windows.Extensions doesn't reference System.Drawing.Common](windows-forms/8.0/extensions-package-deps.md) | Source incompatible   |
| [TableLayoutStyleCollection throws ArgumentException](windows-forms/8.0/tablelayoutstylecollection.md)   | Behavioral change   |
| [Top-level forms scale minimum and maximum size to DPI](windows-forms/8.0/forms-scale-size-to-dpi.md)    | Behavioral change   |
| [WFDEV002 obsoletion is now an error](windows-forms/8.0/domainupdownaccessibleobject.md)                 | Source incompatible |

## See also

- [C# compiler breaking changes in C# 12 / .NET 8](~/_roslyn/docs/compilers/CSharp/Compiler%20Breaking%20Changes%20-%20DotNet%208.md)
- [What's new in .NET 8](../whats-new/dotnet-8/overview.md)

Commit message:

Add breaking change documentation for LDAP APIs not available on .NET Standard / .NET Framework (#49132)

docs/core/compatibility/8.0.md, after:

---
title: Breaking changes in .NET 8
titleSuffix: ""
description: Navigate to the breaking changes in .NET 8.
ms.date: 04/10/2025
no-loc: [Blazor, Razor, Kestrel]
---
# Breaking changes in .NET 8

If you're migrating an app to .NET 8, the breaking changes listed here might affect you. Changes are grouped by technology area, such as ASP.NET Core or Windows Forms.

[!INCLUDE [binary-source-behavioral](includes/binary-source-behavioral.md)]

## ASP.NET Core

| Title                                                                                                | Type of change      |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [ConcurrencyLimiterMiddleware is obsolete](aspnet-core/8.0/concurrencylimitermiddleware-obsolete.md) | Source incompatible |
| [Custom converters for serialization removed](aspnet-core/8.0/problemdetails-custom-converters.md)   | Behavioral change   |
| [Forwarded Headers Middleware ignores X-Forwarded-* headers from unknown proxies](aspnet-core/8.0/forwarded-headers-unknown-proxies.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [HTTP logging middleware requires AddHttpLogging()](aspnet-core/8.0/httplogging-addhttplogging-requirement.md) | Behavioral change |
| [ISystemClock is obsolete](aspnet-core/8.0/isystemclock-obsolete.md)                                 | Source incompatible |
| [Minimal APIs: IFormFile parameters require anti-forgery checks](aspnet-core/8.0/antiforgery-checks.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [Rate-limiting middleware requires AddRateLimiter](aspnet-core/8.0/addratelimiter-requirement.md)    | Behavioral change   |
| [Security token events return a JsonWebToken](aspnet-core/8.0/securitytoken-events.md)               | Behavioral change   |
| [TrimMode defaults to full for Web SDK projects](aspnet-core/8.0/trimmode-full.md)                   | Source incompatible |

## Containers

| Title                                                                   | Type of change    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| ['ca-certificates' package removed from Alpine images](containers/8.0/ca-certificates-package.md) | Binary incompatible |
| [Debian container images upgraded to Debian 12](containers/8.0/debian-version.md) | Binary incompatible/behavioral change |
| [Default ASP.NET Core port changed to 8080](containers/8.0/aspnet-port.md) | Behavioral change |
| [Kerberos package removed from Alpine and Debian images](containers/8.0/krb5-libs-package.md) | Binary incompatible |
| ['libintl' package removed from Alpine images](containers/8.0/libintl-package.md) | Behavioral change |
| [Multi-platform container tags are Linux-only](containers/8.0/multi-platform-tags.md) | Behavioral change |
| [New 'app' user in Linux images](containers/8.0/app-user.md) | Behavioral change |

## Core .NET libraries

| Title                                                                                                     | Type of change      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [Activity operation name when null](core-libraries/8.0/activity-operation-name.md)                        | Behavioral change   |
| [AnonymousPipeServerStream.Dispose behavior](core-libraries/8.0/anonymouspipeserverstream-dispose.md)     | Behavioral change   |
| [API obsoletions with custom diagnostic IDs](core-libraries/8.0/obsolete-apis-with-custom-diagnostics.md) | Source incompatible |
| [Backslash mapping in Unix file paths](core-libraries/8.0/file-path-backslash.md)                         | Behavioral change   |
| [Base64.DecodeFromUtf8 methods ignore whitespace](core-libraries/8.0/decodefromutf8-whitespace.md)        | Behavioral change   |
| [Boolean-backed enum type support removed](core-libraries/8.0/bool-backed-enum.md)                        | Behavioral change   |
| [Complex.ToString format changed to `<a; b>`](core-libraries/8.0/complex-format.md)              | Behavioral change   |
| [Drive's current directory path enumeration](core-libraries/8.0/drive-current-dir-paths.md)              | Behavioral change   |
| [Enumerable.Sum throws new OverflowException for some inputs](core-libraries/8.0/enumerable-sum.md)       | Behavioral change   |
| [FileStream writes when pipe is closed](core-libraries/8.0/filestream-disposed-pipe.md)                   | Behavioral change   |
| [FindSystemTimeZoneById doesn't return new object](core-libraries/8.0/timezoneinfo-object.md)             | Behavioral change   |
| [GC.GetGeneration might return Int32.MaxValue](core-libraries/8.0/getgeneration-return-value.md)          | Behavioral change   |
| [GetFolderPath behavior on Unix](core-libraries/8.0/getfolderpath-unix.md)                                | Behavioral change   |
| [GetSystemVersion no longer returns ImageRuntimeVersion](core-libraries/8.0/getsystemversion.md)          | Behavioral change   |
| [ITypeDescriptorContext nullable annotations](core-libraries/8.0/itypedescriptorcontext-props.md)         | Source incompatible |
| [LDAP APIs not available on .NET Standard / .NET Framework](core-libraries/8.0/ldap-netstandard-apis.md)  | Binary incompatible |
| [Legacy Console.ReadKey removed](core-libraries/8.0/console-readkey-legacy.md)                            | Behavioral change   |
| [Method builders generate parameters with HasDefaultValue set to false](core-libraries/8.0/parameterinfo-hasdefaultvalue.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [Package part URIs are now compared case-insensitively in System.IO.Packaging](core-libraries/8.0/system-io-packaging-case-insensitive-uri.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [ProcessStartInfo.WindowStyle honored when UseShellExecute is false](core-libraries/8.0/processstartinfo-windowstyle.md) | Behavioral change    |
| [RuntimeIdentifier returns platform for which runtime was built](core-libraries/8.0/runtimeidentifier.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [`Type.GetType` throws exception for all invalid element types](core-libraries/8.0/type-gettype.md) | Behavioral change   |

## Cryptography

| Title                                                                                                    | Type of change      | Introduced |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ---------- |
| [AesGcm authentication tag size on macOS](cryptography/8.0/aesgcm-auth-tag-size.md)                      | Behavioral change   | Preview 1  |
| [RSA.EncryptValue and RSA.DecryptValue obsolete](cryptography/8.0/rsa-encrypt-decrypt-value-obsolete.md) | Source incompatible | Preview 1  |

## Deployment

| Title                                                                   | Type of change    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [Host determines RID-specific assets](deployment/8.0/rid-asset-list.md) | Binary incompatible/behavioral change |
| [.NET Monitor only includes distroless images](deployment/8.0/monitor-image.md) | Behavioral change |
| [StripSymbols defaults to true](deployment/8.0/stripsymbols-default.md) | Behavioral change |

## Entity Framework Core

[Breaking changes in EF Core 8](/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-8.0/breaking-changes)

## Extensions

| Title                                                                                                                             | Type of change    |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| [ActivatorUtilities.CreateInstance behaves consistently](extensions/8.0/activatorutilities-createinstance-behavior.md)            | Behavioral change |
| [ActivatorUtilities.CreateInstance requires non-null provider](extensions/8.0/activatorutilities-createinstance-null-provider.md) | Behavioral change |
| [ConfigurationBinder throws for mismatched value](extensions/8.0/configurationbinder-exceptions.md)                               | Behavioral change |
| [ConfigurationManager package no longer references System.Security.Permissions](extensions/8.0/configurationmanager-package.md)   | Source incompatible |
| [DirectoryServices package no longer references System.Security.Permissions](extensions/8.0/directoryservices-package.md)         | Source incompatible |
| [Empty keys added to dictionary by configuration binder](extensions/8.0/dictionary-configuration-binding.md)                      | Behavioral change |
| [FromKeyedServicesAttribute.Key can be null](extensions/8.0/fromkeyedservicesattribute-key-nullable.md)                           | Source incompatible |
| [HostApplicationBuilderSettings.Args respected by HostApplicationBuilder ctor](extensions/8.0/hostapplicationbuilder-ctor.md)     | Behavioral change |
| [ManagementDateTimeConverter.ToDateTime returns a local time](extensions/8.0/dmtf-todatetime.md)     | Behavioral change |
| [System.Formats.Cbor DateTimeOffset formatting change](extensions/8.0/cbor-datetime.md)              | Behavioral change |

## Globalization

| Title                                                                                             | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [Date and time converters honor culture argument](globalization/8.0/typeconverter-cultureinfo.md) | Behavioral change |
| [TwoDigitYearMax default is 2049](globalization/8.0/twodigityearmax-default.md)                   | Behavioral change |

## Interop

| Title                                                                                                         | Type of change      |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| [CreateObjectFlags.Unwrap only unwraps on target instance](interop/8.0/comwrappers-unwrap.md)                 | Behavioral change   |
| [Custom marshallers require additional members](interop/8.0/marshal-modes.md)                                 | Source incompatible |
| [IDispatchImplAttribute API is removed](interop/8.0/idispatchimplattribute-removed.md)                        | Binary incompatible |
| [JSFunctionBinding implicit public default constructor removed](interop/8.0/jsfunctionbinding-constructor.md) | Binary incompatible |
| [SafeHandle types must have public constructor](interop/8.0/safehandle-constructor.md)                        | Source incompatible |
| [Linux native library resolution no longer uses `netcoredeps`](interop/8.0/linux-netcoredeps.md)              | Behavioral change   |

## Networking

| Title                                                                                             | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [SendFile throws NotSupportedException for connectionless sockets](networking/8.0/sendfile-connectionless.md) | Behavioral change |
| [User info in `mailto:` URIs is compared](networking/8.0/uri-comparison.md) | Behavioral change |

## Reflection

| Title                                                                                             | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [IntPtr no longer used for function pointer types](reflection/8.0/function-pointer-reflection.md) | Behavioral change |

## SDK

| Title                                                                           | Type of change                                   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| [CLI console output uses UTF-8](sdk/8.0/console-encoding.md)                    | Behavioral change/Source and binary incompatible |
| [Console encoding not UTF-8 after completion](sdk/8.0/console-encoding-fix.md)  | Behavioral change/Binary incompatible            |
| [Containers default to use the 'latest' tag](sdk/8.0/default-image-tag.md)      | Behavioral change                                |
| ['dotnet pack' uses Release configuration](sdk/8.0/dotnet-pack-config.md)       | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| ['dotnet publish' uses Release configuration](sdk/8.0/dotnet-publish-config.md) | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| [Duplicate output for -getItem, -getProperty, and -getTargetResult](sdk/8.0/getx-duplicate-output.md) | Behavioral change            |
| [Implicit `using` for System.Net.Http no longer added](sdk/8.0/implicit-global-using-netfx.md) | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| [MSBuild custom derived build events deprecated](sdk/8.0/custombuildeventargs.md)              | Behavioral change                                |
| [MSBuild respects DOTNET_CLI_UI_LANGUAGE](sdk/8.0/msbuild-language.md)                         | Behavioral change                                |
| [Runtime-specific apps not self-contained](sdk/8.0/runtimespecific-app-default.md)             | Source/binary incompatible                       |
| [--arch option doesn't imply self-contained](sdk/8.0/arch-option.md)                           | Behavioral change                                |
| ['dotnet restore' produces security vulnerability warnings](sdk/8.0/dotnet-restore-audit.md)   | Behavioral change                                |
| ['dotnet list package' warns if source doesn't provide vulnerability data](sdk/8.0/dotnet-list-package-audit-source-warning.md) | Behavioral change                                |
| [SDK uses a smaller RID graph](sdk/8.0/rid-graph.md)                                           | Behavioral change/Source incompatible            |
| [Setting DebugSymbols to false disables PDB generation](sdk/8.0/debugsymbols.md)               | Behavioral change                                |
| [Source Link included in the .NET SDK](sdk/8.0/source-link.md)                                 | Source incompatible                              |
| [Trimming may not be used with .NET Standard or .NET Framework](sdk/8.0/trimming-unsupported-targetframework.md) | Behavioral change                                |
| [Unlisted packages not installed by default for .NET tools](sdk/8.0/unlisted-versions.md)                         | Behavioral change                                |
| [.user file imported in outer builds](sdk/8.0/user-file.md)                   | Behavioral change |
| [Version requirements for .NET 8 SDK](sdk/8.0/version-requirements.md) | Source incompatible               |

## Serialization

| Title                                                                                       | Type of change    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [BinaryFormatter disabled for most projects](serialization/8.0/binaryformatter-disabled.md) | Behavioral change |
| [PublishedTrimmed projects fail reflection-based serialization](serialization/8.0/publishtrimmed.md) | Behavioral change |
| [Reflection-based deserializer resolves metadata eagerly](serialization/8.0/metadata-resolving.md) | Behavioral change |

## Windows Forms

| Title                                                                                                    | Type of change      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [Certs checked before loading remote images in PictureBox](windows-forms/8.0/picturebox-remote-image.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [DateTimePicker.Text is empty string](windows-forms/8.0/datetimepicker-text.md)                          | Behavioral change   |
| [DefaultValueAttribute removed from some properties](windows-forms/8.0/defaultvalueattribute-removal.md) | Behavioral change   |
| [ExceptionCollection ctor throws ArgumentException](windows-forms/8.0/exceptioncollection.md)            | Behavioral change   |
| [Forms scale according to AutoScaleMode](windows-forms/8.0/top-level-window-scaling.md)                  | Behavioral change   |
| [ImageList.ColorDepth default is Depth32Bit](windows-forms/8.0/imagelist-colordepth.md)                  | Behavioral change   |
| [System.Windows.Extensions doesn't reference System.Drawing.Common](windows-forms/8.0/extensions-package-deps.md) | Source incompatible   |
| [TableLayoutStyleCollection throws ArgumentException](windows-forms/8.0/tablelayoutstylecollection.md)   | Behavioral change   |
| [Top-level forms scale minimum and maximum size to DPI](windows-forms/8.0/forms-scale-size-to-dpi.md)    | Behavioral change   |
| [WFDEV002 obsoletion is now an error](windows-forms/8.0/domainupdownaccessibleobject.md)                 | Source incompatible |

## See also

- [C# compiler breaking changes in C# 12 / .NET 8](~/_roslyn/docs/compilers/CSharp/Compiler%20Breaking%20Changes%20-%20DotNet%208.md)
- [What's new in .NET 8](../whats-new/dotnet-8/overview.md)
