docs/core/compatibility/winforms.md, before:

---
title: Windows Forms breaking changes - .NET Core
description: Lists the breaking changes in Windows Forms for .NET Core.
ms.date: "09/20/2019"
author: "rpetrusha"
ms.author: "ronpet"
---
# Breaking changes in Windows Forms

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This article is under construction. This is not a complete list of .NET Core breaking changes. For more information on .NET Core breaking changes, you can examine individual [breaking changes issues](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abreaking-change) in the dotnet/docs repository on GitHub.

The following is a list of breaking changes in Windows Forms by .NET Core version.

## .NET Core 3.0 Preview 9

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.AllowUpdateChildControlIndexForTabControls compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-allowupdatechildcontrolindexfortabcontrols.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DoNotLoadLatestRichEditControl compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-donotloadlatestricheditcontrol.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DoNotSupportSelectAllShortcutInMultilineTextBox compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-donotsupportselectallshortcutinmultilinetextbox.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DontSupportReentrantFilterMessage compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-dontsupportreentrantfiltermessage.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown.UseLegacyScrolling compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-uselegacyscrolling.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.EnableVisualStyleValidation compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-enablevisualstylevalidation.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.UseLegacyContextMenuStripSourceControlValue compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-uselegacycontextmenustripsourcecontrolvalue.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.UseLegacyImages compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-uselegacyimages.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[SerializableAttribute removed from some Windows Forms types](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/remove-serializationattribute.md)]

## .NET Core 3.0

[!INCLUDE[Control.DefaultFont changed to Segoe UI 9pt](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/control-defaultfont-changed.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Modernization of the FolderBrowserDialog](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/modernized-folderbrowserdialog.md)]

Commit message:

Added additional breaking changes (#14935)
* Documented two more breaking changes

* documented corefx change

* Added floating point change

* Added networking change

* Updated support files, TOC

* Renamed file to address build break

* Fixed xrefs

* Update includes/core-changes/corefx/floating-point-parsing-does-not-overflow.md

Co-Authored-By: Maira Wenzel <mairaw@microsoft.com>

docs/core/compatibility/winforms.md, after:

---
title: Windows Forms breaking changes - .NET Core
description: Lists the breaking changes in Windows Forms for .NET Core.
ms.date: "09/20/2019"
author: "rpetrusha"
ms.author: "ronpet"
---
# Breaking changes in Windows Forms

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This article is under construction. This is not a complete list of .NET Core breaking changes. For more information on .NET Core breaking changes, you can examine individual [breaking changes issues](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abreaking-change) in the dotnet/docs repository on GitHub.

The following is a list of breaking changes in Windows Forms by .NET Core version.

## .NET Core 3.0 Preview 9

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.AllowUpdateChildControlIndexForTabControls compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-allowupdatechildcontrolindexfortabcontrols.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DoNotLoadLatestRichEditControl compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-donotloadlatestricheditcontrol.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DoNotSupportSelectAllShortcutInMultilineTextBox compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-donotsupportselectallshortcutinmultilinetextbox.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DontSupportReentrantFilterMessage compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-dontsupportreentrantfiltermessage.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown.UseLegacyScrolling compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-uselegacyscrolling.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.EnableVisualStyleValidation compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-enablevisualstylevalidation.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.UseLegacyContextMenuStripSourceControlValue compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-uselegacycontextmenustripsourcecontrolvalue.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Switch.System.Windows.Forms.UseLegacyImages compatibility switch not supported](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/deprecate-uselegacyimages.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[SerializableAttribute removed from some Windows Forms types](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/remove-serializationattribute.md)]

## .NET Core 3.0 RC1

[!INCLUDE[Change of access for AccessibleObject.RuntimeIDFirstItem](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/changed-access-for-runtimeidfirstitem.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Duplicated APIs removed from Windows Forms](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/remove-duplicated-apis.md)]

## .NET Core 3.0

[!INCLUDE[Control.DefaultFont changed to Segoe UI 9pt](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/control-defaultfont-changed.md)]

***

[!INCLUDE[Modernization of the FolderBrowserDialog](~/includes/core-changes/windowsforms/modernized-folderbrowserdialog.md)]
