docs/core/dependency-loading/loading-managed.md, before:

---
title: Managed assembly loading algorithm - .NET Core
description: Description of the details of the managed assembly loading algorithm in .NET Core
ms.date: 08/09/2019
author: sdmaclea
---
# Managed assembly loading algorithm

Managed assemblies are located and loaded with an algorithm involving various stages.

All managed assemblies except satellite assemblies and `WinRT` assemblies use the same algorithm.

## When are managed assemblies loaded?

The most common mechanism to trigger a managed assembly load is a static assembly reference. These references are inserted by the compiler whenever code uses a type defined in another assembly. These assemblies are loaded (`load-by-name`) as needed by the runtime.

The direct use of specific APIs will also trigger loads:

|API  |Description  |`Active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> |
|---------|---------|---------|
|<xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromAssemblyName%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`|The [this](../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/this.md) instance.|
|<xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromAssemblyPath%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromNativeImagePath%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from path.|The [this](../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/this.md) instance.|
<xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromStream%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from object.|The [this](../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/this.md) instance.|
|<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.LoadFile%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from path in a new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance|The new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance.|
<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.LoadFrom%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from path in the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance.<p>Adds a <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Resolving> handler to <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The handler will load the assembly's dependencies from its directory.|The <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance.|
|<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.Reflection.AssemblyName)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.LoadWithPartialName%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> methods.|
|<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.Byte[])?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.Byte[],System.Byte[])?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from object in a new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance.|The new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance.|
<xref:System.Type.GetType(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Type.GetType(System.String,System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Type.GetType(System.String,System.Boolean,System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Type.GetType%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods with an `assemblyResolver` argument.|
<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.GetType%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|If type `name` describes an assembly qualified generic type, trigger a `Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Type.GetType%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> when using assembly qualified type names.|
<xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance(System.String,System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance(System.String,System.String,System.Object[])?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance(System.String,System.String,System.Boolean,System.Reflection.BindingFlags,System.Reflection.Binder,System.Object[],System.Globalization.CultureInfo,System.Object[])?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods taking a <xref:System.Type> argument.|

## Algorithm

The following algorithm describes how the runtime loads a managed assembly.

1. Determine the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext>.

    - For a static assembly reference, the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> is the instance that loaded the referring assembly.
    - Preferred APIs make the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> explicit.
    - Other APIs infer the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext>. For these APIs, the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.CurrentContextualReflectionContext?displayProperty=nameWithType> property is used. If its value is `null`, then the inferred <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance is used.
    - See table above.

2. For the `Load-by-name` methods, the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> loads the assembly. In priority order by:
    - Checking its `cache-by-name`.

    - Calling the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Load%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> function.

    - Checking the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance's cache and running [managed assembly default probing](default-probing.md#managed-assembly-default-probing) logic.

      - If an assembly is newly loaded, a reference is added to the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance's `cache-by-name`.

    - Raising the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Resolving?displayProperty=nameWithType> event for the active AssemblyLoadContext.

    - Raising the <xref:System.AppDomain.AssemblyResolve?displayProperty=nameWithType> event.

3. For the other types of loads, the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> loads the assembly. In priority order by:
    - Checking its `cache-by-name`.

    - Loading from the specified path or raw assembly object.

      - If an assembly is newly loaded, a reference is added to `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance's `cache-by-name`.

4. In either case, if an assembly is newly loaded, then:
   - The <xref:System.AppDomain.AssemblyLoad?displayProperty=nameWithType> event is raised.

Commit message:

Note that about timing of assembly loads

docs/core/dependency-loading/loading-managed.md, after:

---
title: Managed assembly loading algorithm - .NET Core
description: Description of the details of the managed assembly loading algorithm in .NET Core
ms.date: 08/09/2019
author: sdmaclea
---
# Managed assembly loading algorithm

Managed assemblies are located and loaded with an algorithm involving various stages.

All managed assemblies except satellite assemblies and `WinRT` assemblies use the same algorithm.

## When are managed assemblies loaded?

The most common mechanism to trigger a managed assembly load is a static assembly reference. These references are inserted by the compiler whenever code uses a type defined in another assembly. These assemblies are loaded (`load-by-name`) as needed by the runtime. The exact timing of when the static assembly references are loaded is unspecified. It can vary between runtime version and it is influenced by optimizations like inlining.

The direct use of specific APIs will also trigger loads:

|API  |Description  |`Active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> |
|---------|---------|---------|
|<xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromAssemblyName%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`|The [this](../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/this.md) instance.|
|<xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromAssemblyPath%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromNativeImagePath%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from path.|The [this](../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/this.md) instance.|
<xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.LoadFromStream%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from object.|The [this](../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/this.md) instance.|
|<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.LoadFile%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from path in a new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance|The new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance.|
<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.LoadFrom%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from path in the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance.<p>Adds a <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Resolving> handler to <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The handler will load the assembly's dependencies from its directory.|The <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance.|
|<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.Reflection.AssemblyName)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.LoadWithPartialName%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> methods.|
|<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.Byte[])?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.Load(System.Byte[],System.Byte[])?displayProperty=nameWithType>|Load from object in a new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance.|The new <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance.|
<xref:System.Type.GetType(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Type.GetType(System.String,System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Type.GetType(System.String,System.Boolean,System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Type.GetType%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods with an `assemblyResolver` argument.|
<xref:System.Reflection.Assembly.GetType%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>|If type `name` describes an assembly qualified generic type, trigger a `Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Type.GetType%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> when using assembly qualified type names.|
<xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance(System.String,System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance(System.String,System.String,System.Object[])?displayProperty=nameWithType><p><xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance(System.String,System.String,System.Boolean,System.Reflection.BindingFlags,System.Reflection.Binder,System.Object[],System.Globalization.CultureInfo,System.Object[])?displayProperty=nameWithType>|`Load-by-name`.|Inferred from caller.<p>Prefer <xref:System.Activator.CreateInstance%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods taking a <xref:System.Type> argument.|

## Algorithm

The following algorithm describes how the runtime loads a managed assembly.

1. Determine the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext>.

    - For a static assembly reference, the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> is the instance that loaded the referring assembly.
    - Preferred APIs make the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> explicit.
    - Other APIs infer the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext>. For these APIs, the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.CurrentContextualReflectionContext?displayProperty=nameWithType> property is used. If its value is `null`, then the inferred <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance is used.
    - See table above.

2. For the `Load-by-name` methods, the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> loads the assembly. In priority order by:
    - Checking its `cache-by-name`.

    - Calling the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Load%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> function.

    - Checking the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance's cache and running [managed assembly default probing](default-probing.md#managed-assembly-default-probing) logic.

      - If an assembly is newly loaded, a reference is added to the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Default%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> instance's `cache-by-name`.

    - Raising the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext.Resolving?displayProperty=nameWithType> event for the active AssemblyLoadContext.

    - Raising the <xref:System.AppDomain.AssemblyResolve?displayProperty=nameWithType> event.

3. For the other types of loads, the `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> loads the assembly. In priority order by:
    - Checking its `cache-by-name`.

    - Loading from the specified path or raw assembly object.

      - If an assembly is newly loaded, a reference is added to `active` <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyLoadContext> instance's `cache-by-name`.

4. In either case, if an assembly is newly loaded, then:
   - The <xref:System.AppDomain.AssemblyLoad?displayProperty=nameWithType> event is raised.
