---
title: "Automatically Implemented Properties"
description: For an automatically implemented property in C#, the compiler creates a private, anonymous backing field accessed only through get and set accessors of the property.
ms.date: 10/30/2024
f1_keywords:
  - "propertyInitializer_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "auto-implemented properties [C#]"
  - "properties [C#], auto-implemented"
ms.topic: article
---
# Automatically implemented properties

Automatically implemented properties make property-declaration more concise when no other logic is required in the property accessors. They also enable client code to create objects. When you declare a property as shown in the following example, the compiler creates a private, anonymous backing field that can only be accessed through the property's `get` and `set` accessors. `init` accessors can also be declared as automatically implemented properties.

The following example shows a simple class that has some automatically implemented properties:

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/properties/AutoImplemented.cs" id="Snippet28":::

You can't declare automatically implemented properties in interfaces. Automatically implemented and field backed properties declare a private instance backing field, and interfaces can't declare instance fields. Declaring a property in an interface without defining a body declares a property with accessors. Each type that implements that interface must implement that property.

You can initialize automatically implemented properties similarly to fields:

```csharp
public string FirstName { get; set; } = "Jane";
```

The class that is shown in the previous example is mutable. Client code can change the values in objects after creation. In complex classes that contain significant behavior (methods) and data, it's often necessary to have public properties. However, for small classes or structs that just encapsulate a set of values (data) and have little or no behaviors, you should use one of the following options for making the objects immutable:

* Declare only a `get` accessor (immutable everywhere except the constructor).
* Declare a `get` accessor and an `init` accessor (immutable everywhere except during object construction).
* Declare the `set` accessor as [private](../../language-reference/keywords/private.md) (immutable to consumers).

For more information, see [How to implement a lightweight class with automatically implemented properties](./how-to-implement-a-lightweight-class-with-auto-implemented-properties.md).

You might need to add validation to an automatically implemented property. C# 13 adds [field backed properties](../../language-reference/keywords/field.md) as a preview feature. You use the `field` keyword to access the compiler synthesized backing field of an automatically implemented property. For example, you could ensure that the `FirstName` property in the preceding example can't be set to `null` or the empty string:

```csharp
public string FirstName 
{ 
    get; 
    set 
    { 
        field = (string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(value) is false
            ? value
            : throw new ArgumentException(nameof(value), "First name can't be whitespace or null"));
    }
} = "Jane";
```

This feature enables you to add logic to accessors without requiring you to explicitly declare the backing field. You use the `field` keyword to access the backing field generated by the compiler.

[!INCLUDE[field-preview](../../includes/field-preview.md)]

## See also

- [Use auto-implemented properties (style rule IDE0032)](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0032.md)
- [Properties](./properties.md)
- [Modifiers](../../language-reference/keywords/index.md)
