docs/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors.md, before:

---
title: "Constructors - C# programming guide"
description: A constructor in C# is called when a class or struct is created. Use constructors to set defaults, limit instantiation, and write flexible, easy-to-read code.
ms.date: 09/27/2021
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "constructors [C#]"
  - "classes [C#], constructors"
  - "C# language, constructors"
ms.assetid: df2e2e9d-7998-418b-8e7d-890c17ff6c95
---
# Constructors (C# programming guide)

Whenever a [class](../../language-reference/keywords/class.md) or [struct](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md) is created, its constructor is called. A class or struct may have multiple constructors that take different arguments. Constructors enable the programmer to set default values, limit instantiation, and write code that is flexible and easy to read. For more information and examples, see [Instance constructors](instance-constructors.md) and [Using constructors](using-constructors.md).

## Constructor syntax

A constructor is a method whose name is the same as the name of its type. Its method signature includes only an optional [access modifier](./access-modifiers.md), the method name and its parameter list; it does not include a return type. The following example shows the constructor for a class named `Person`.

[!code-csharp[constructors](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors1.cs#1)]  

If a constructor can be implemented as a single statement, you can use an [expression body definition](../statements-expressions-operators/expression-bodied-members.md). The following example defines a `Location` class whose constructor has a single string parameter named *name*. The expression body definition assigns the argument to the `locationName` field.

[!code-csharp[expression-bodied-constructor](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/expr-bodied-ctor.cs#1)]  

## Static constructors

The previous examples have all shown instance constructors, which create a new object. A class or struct can also have a static constructor, which initializes static members of the type.  Static constructors are parameterless. If you don't provide a static constructor to initialize static fields, the C# compiler initializes static fields to their default value as listed in the [Default values of C# types](../../language-reference/builtin-types/default-values.md) article.

The following example uses a static constructor to initialize a static field.

[!code-csharp[constructors](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors1.cs#2)]  

You can also define a static constructor with an expression body definition, as the following example shows.

[!code-csharp[constructors](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors1.cs#3)]  

For more information and examples, see [Static Constructors](./static-constructors.md).  
  
## In This Section  

 [Using Constructors](./using-constructors.md)  
  
 [Instance Constructors](./instance-constructors.md)  
  
 [Private Constructors](./private-constructors.md)  
  
 [Static Constructors](./static-constructors.md)  
  
 [How to write a copy constructor](./how-to-write-a-copy-constructor.md)  
  
## See also

- [C# Programming Guide](../index.md)
- [The C# type system](../../fundamentals/types/index.md)
- [Finalizers](./finalizers.md)
- [static](../../language-reference/keywords/static.md)
- [Why Do Initializers Run In The Opposite Order As Constructors? Part One](/archive/blogs/ericlippert/why-do-initializers-run-in-the-opposite-order-as-constructors-part-one)

Commit message:

Specify order of initialization
Fixes #32809
Fixes #33704

Specify the order of initialization actions when static constructors run, and when a new instance is created.

docs/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors.md, after:

---
title: "Constructors - C# programming guide"
description: A constructor in C# is called when a class or struct is created. Use constructors to set defaults, limit instantiation, and write flexible, easy-to-read code.
ms.date: 01/30/2023
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "constructors [C#]"
  - "classes [C#], constructors"
  - "C# language, constructors"
---
# Constructors (C# programming guide)

Whenever an instance of a [class](../../language-reference/keywords/class.md) or a [struct](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md) is created, its constructor is called. A class or struct may have multiple constructors that take different arguments. Constructors enable the programmer to set default values, limit instantiation, and write code that is flexible and easy to read. For more information and examples, see [Instance constructors](instance-constructors.md) and [Using constructors](using-constructors.md).

There are several actions that are part of initializing a new instance. Those actions take place in the following order:

1. *Instance fields are set to 0*. This is typically done by the runtime.
1. *Field initializers run*. The field initializers in the most derived type run.
1. *Base type field initializers run*. Field initializers starting with the direct base through each base type to <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=fullName>.
1. *Base instance constructors run*. Any instance constructors, starting with <xref:System.Object.%23ctor%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> through each base class to the direct base class.
1. *The instance constructor runs*. The instance constructor for the type runs.
1. *Object initializers run*. If the expression includes any object initializers, those run after the instance constructor runs. Object initializers run in the textual order.

The preceding actions take place when a new instance is initialized. If a new instance of a `struct` is set to its `default` value, all instance fields are set to 0.
 
## Constructor syntax

A constructor is a method whose name is the same as the name of its type. Its method signature includes only an optional [access modifier](./access-modifiers.md), the method name and its parameter list; it does not include a return type. The following example shows the constructor for a class named `Person`.

[!code-csharp[constructors](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors1.cs#1)]  

If a constructor can be implemented as a single statement, you can use an [expression body definition](../statements-expressions-operators/expression-bodied-members.md). The following example defines a `Location` class whose constructor has a single string parameter named *name*. The expression body definition assigns the argument to the `locationName` field.

[!code-csharp[expression-bodied-constructor](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/expr-bodied-ctor.cs#1)]  

## Static constructors

The previous examples have all shown instance constructors, which create a new object. A class or struct can also have a static constructor, which initializes static members of the type.  Static constructors are parameterless. If you don't provide a static constructor to initialize static fields, the C# compiler initializes static fields to their default value as listed in the [Default values of C# types](../../language-reference/builtin-types/default-values.md) article.

The following example uses a static constructor to initialize a static field.

[!code-csharp[constructors](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors1.cs#2)]  

You can also define a static constructor with an expression body definition, as the following example shows.

[!code-csharp[constructors](../../../../samples/snippets/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/constructors1.cs#3)]  

For more information and examples, see [Static Constructors](./static-constructors.md).  
  
## In This Section  

 [Using Constructors](./using-constructors.md)  
  
 [Instance Constructors](./instance-constructors.md)  
  
 [Private Constructors](./private-constructors.md)  
  
 [Static Constructors](./static-constructors.md)  
  
 [How to write a copy constructor](./how-to-write-a-copy-constructor.md)  
  
## See also

- [C# Programming Guide](../index.md)
- [The C# type system](../../fundamentals/types/index.md)
- [Finalizers](./finalizers.md)
- [static](../../language-reference/keywords/static.md)
- [Why Do Initializers Run In The Opposite Order As Constructors? Part One](/archive/blogs/ericlippert/why-do-initializers-run-in-the-opposite-order-as-constructors-part-one)
