docs/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/instance-constructors.md, before:

---
title: "Instance constructors - C# programming guide"
description: Instance constructors in C# create and initialize any instance member variables when you use the new expression to create an instance of a type.
ms.date: 09/27/2021
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "constructors [C#], instance constructors"
  - "instance constructors [C#]"
ms.assetid: 24663779-c1e5-4af4-a942-ca554e4c542d
---
# Instance constructors (C# programming guide)

You declare an instance constructor to specify the code that is executed when you create a new instance of a type with the [`new` expression](../../language-reference/operators/new-operator.md). To initialize a [static](../../language-reference/keywords/static.md) class or static variables in a non-static class, you can define a [static constructor](static-constructors.md).

As the following example shows, you can declare several instance constructors in one type:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/instance-constructors/coords/Program.cs":::

In the preceding example, the first, parameterless, constructor calls the second constructor with both arguments equal `0`. To do that, use the `this` keyword.

When you declare an instance constructor in a derived class, you can call a constructor of a base class. To do that, use the `base` keyword, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/instance-constructors/shapes/Program.cs":::

## Parameterless constructors

If a *class* has no explicit instance constructors, C# provides a parameterless constructor that you can use to instantiate an instance of that class, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/instance-constructors/person/Program.cs":::

That constructor initializes instance fields and properties according to the corresponding initializers. If a field or property has no initializer, its value is set to the [default value](../../language-reference/builtin-types/default-values.md) of the field's or property's type. If you declare at least one instance constructor in a class, C# doesn't provide a parameterless constructor.

A *structure* type always provides a parameterless constructor as follows:

- In C# 9.0 and earlier, that is an implicit parameterless constructor that produces the [default value](../../language-reference/builtin-types/default-values.md) of a type.
- In C# 10 and later, that is either an implicit parameterless constructor that produces the default value of a type or an explicitly declared parameterless constructor. For more information, see the [Struct initialization and default values](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md#struct-initialization-and-default-values) section of the [Structure types](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md) article.

## See also

- [C# programming guide](../index.md)
- [Classes, structs, and records](../../fundamentals/object-oriented/index.md)
- [Constructors](constructors.md)
- [Finalizers](finalizers.md)
- [base](../../language-reference/keywords/base.md)
- [this](../../language-reference/keywords/this.md)

Commit message:

Add reference docs for preview features (#34876)
* publish speclet

* Add What's new page for C# 12

* build error

* Language reference on Primary constructors

Add language reference updates for primary constructors.

* fix build issues

- Fix links and anchors
- Use preview SDK
- Fix widget snippet path

* warnings

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Petr Kulikov <petr.kulikov@gmail.com>

* Add specs and overview for other features

Add the specs and overview text for:

- Alias any type
- Default lambda parameters.

* Add language reference details

Add language reference details for using alias and default lambda parameters.

* fix warnings

As part of this, create a single breadcrumb for all feature specs.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: David Pine <david.pine@microsoft.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Petr Kulikov <petr.kulikov@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: David Pine <david.pine@microsoft.com>

docs/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/instance-constructors.md, after:

---
title: "Instance constructors"
description: Instance constructors in C# create and initialize any instance member variables when you use the new expression to create an instance of a type.
ms.date: 04/06/2023
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "constructors [C#], instance constructors"
  - "instance constructors [C#]"
---
# Instance constructors (C# programming guide)

You declare an instance constructor to specify the code that is executed when you create a new instance of a type with the [`new` expression](../../language-reference/operators/new-operator.md). To initialize a [static](../../language-reference/keywords/static.md) class or static variables in a nonstatic class, you can define a [static constructor](static-constructors.md).

As the following example shows, you can declare several instance constructors in one type:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/instance-constructors/coords/Program.cs":::

In the preceding example, the first, parameterless, constructor calls the second constructor with both arguments equal `0`. To do that, use the `this` keyword.

When you declare an instance constructor in a derived class, you can call a constructor of a base class. To do that, use the `base` keyword, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/instance-constructors/shapes/Program.cs":::

## Parameterless constructors

If a *class* has no explicit instance constructors, C# provides a parameterless constructor that you can use to instantiate an instance of that class, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/instance-constructors/person/Program.cs":::

That constructor initializes instance fields and properties according to the corresponding initializers. If a field or property has no initializer, its value is set to the [default value](../../language-reference/builtin-types/default-values.md) of the field's or property's type. If you declare at least one instance constructor in a class, C# doesn't provide a parameterless constructor.

A *structure* type always provides a parameterless constructor as follows:

- In C# 9.0 and earlier, that is an implicit parameterless constructor that produces the [default value](../../language-reference/builtin-types/default-values.md) of a type.
- In C# 10 and later, that is either an implicit parameterless constructor that produces the default value of a type or an explicitly declared parameterless constructor. For more information, see the [Struct initialization and default values](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md#struct-initialization-and-default-values) section of the [Structure types](../../language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md) article.

## Primary constructors

Beginning in C# 12, you can declare a *primary constructor* in classes and structs. You place any parameters in parentheses following the type name:

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/instance-constructors/widgets/Program.cs" id="BasePrimaryConstructor":::

The parameters to a primary constructor are in scope in the entire body of the declaring type. They can initialize properties or fields. They can be used as variables in methods or local functions. They can be passed to a base constructor.

A primary constructor indicates that these parameters are necessary for any instance of a type. Any explicitly written constructor must use the `this(...)` initializer syntax to invoke the primary constructor. That ensures that the primary constructor parameters are definitely assigned by all constructors. For any `class` type, including `record class` types, the implicit parameterless constructor isn't emitted when a primary constructor is present. For any `struct` type, including `record struct` types, the implicit parameterless constructor is always emitted, and always initializes all fields, including primary constructor parameters, to the 0-bit pattern. If you write an explicit parameterless constructor, it must invoke the primary constructor. In that case, you can specify a different value for the primary constructor parameters. The following code shows examples of primary constructors.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/instance-constructors/widgets/Program.cs" id="DerivedPrimaryConstructor":::

For non-`record` types, if a primary constructor is read or written in the body of the type, the compiler captures the parameter in a private field. This private field has a compiler-generated name that is different from the primary constructor parameter. That ensures the private field name doesn't conflict with other variable names. It's also harder to find using reflection. If a primary constructor parameter isn't used in the body of the type, no private field is captured. This prevents accidentally allocating two copies of a primary constructor parameter that is passed to a base constructor.

For `record` types (`record class` and `record struct`), the compiler generates public properties for each of the positional parameters in the primary constructor. For `record class` types, if a primary constructor parameter uses the same name as a base primary constructor, that property is a public property of the base `record class` type. It is not duplicated in the derived `record class` type. These properties aren't generated for non-`record` types.

## See also

- [C# programming guide](../index.md)
- [Classes, structs, and records](../../fundamentals/object-oriented/index.md)
- [Constructors](constructors.md)
- [Finalizers](finalizers.md)
- [base](../../language-reference/keywords/base.md)
- [this](../../language-reference/keywords/this.md)
- [Primary constructors feature spec](~/_csharplang/proposals/primary-constructors.md)
