docs/core/testing/microsoft-testing-platform-extensions-code-coverage.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft.Testing.Platform Code Coverage extensions
description: Learn about the various Microsoft.Testing.Platform Code Coverage extensions and how to use them.
author: evangelink
ms.author: amauryleve
ms.date: 04/10/2024
---

# Code coverage extensions

This article lists and explains all Microsoft.Testing.Platform extensions related to the code coverage capability.

You can use the code coverage feature to determine what proportion of your project's code is being tested by coded tests such as unit tests. To effectively guard against bugs, your tests should exercise or *cover* a large proportion of your code.

## Microsoft code coverage

Microsoft Code Coverage analysis is possible for both managed (CLR) and unmanaged (native) code. Both static and dynamic instrumentation are supported. This extension is shipped as part of [Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage) NuGet package.

> [!NOTE]
> Unmanaged (native) code coverage is disabled in the extension by default. Use flags `EnableStaticNativeInstrumentation` and `EnableDynamicNativeInstrumentation` to enable it if needed.
> For more information about unmanaged code coverage, see [Static and dynamic native instrumentation](/visualstudio/test/customizing-code-coverage-analysis?#static-and-dynamic-native-instrumentation).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The package is shipped with Microsoft .NET library closed-source free to use licensing model.

For more information about Microsoft code coverage, see its [GitHub page](https://github.com/microsoft/codecoverage).

Microsoft Code Coverage provides the following options:

| Option                     | Description                                                                   |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--coverage`               | Collect the code coverage using dotnet-coverage tool.                         |
| `--coverage-output`        | The name or path of the produced coverage file. By default, the file is `TestResults/<guid>.coverage`. |
| `--coverage-output-format` | Output file format. Supported values are: `coverage`, `xml`, and `cobertura`. Default is `coverage`. |
| `--coverage-settings`      | [XML code coverage settings](../additional-tools/dotnet-coverage.md#settings). |

For more information about the available options, see [settings](../additional-tools/dotnet-coverage.md#settings) and [samples](https://github.com/microsoft/codecoverage/tree/main/samples/Algorithms).

> [!NOTE]
> The default value of `IncludeTestAssembly` in Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage is `false`, while it used to be `true` in VSTest. This means that test projects are excluded by default. For more information, see [Code Coverage configuration](https://github.com/microsoft/codecoverage/blob/main/docs/configuration.md).

## Coverlet

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `coverlet.collector` NuGet package is designed specifically for VSTest and cannot be used with `Microsoft.Testing.Platform`.

There's currently no Coverlet extension, but you can use [Coverlet .NET global tool](https://github.com/coverlet-coverage/coverlet#net-global-tool-guide-suffers-from-possible-known-issue).

Assuming you've already installed the Coverlet global tool, you can now run:

```bash
coverlet .\bin\Debug\net8.0\TestProject2.dll --target "dotnet" --targetargs "test .\bin\Debug\net8.0\TestProject2.dll --no-build"
```

Commit message:

Adding version compatibility of MS.Testing.Ext.CC with MTP (#49066)
* Updating prompt

* Update docs/core/additional-tools/dotnet-coverage.md

Co-authored-by: Bill Wagner <wiwagn@microsoft.com>

* Update docs/core/additional-tools/dotnet-coverage.md

Co-authored-by: Bill Wagner <wiwagn@microsoft.com>

* Adding version compatibility of MTP and MTP CC extension,

* Adding ai assisted tag,

---------

Co-authored-by: faisal <faisalhafeez@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Bill Wagner <wiwagn@microsoft.com>

docs/core/testing/microsoft-testing-platform-extensions-code-coverage.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft.Testing.Platform Code Coverage extensions
description: Learn about the various Microsoft.Testing.Platform Code Coverage extensions and how to use them.
author: evangelink
ms.author: amauryleve
ms.date: 04/10/2024
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Code coverage extensions

This article lists and explains all Microsoft.Testing.Platform extensions related to the code coverage capability.

You can use the code coverage feature to determine what proportion of your project's code is being tested by coded tests such as unit tests. To effectively guard against bugs, your tests should exercise or *cover* a large proportion of your code.

## Microsoft code coverage

Microsoft Code Coverage analysis is possible for both managed (CLR) and unmanaged (native) code. Both static and dynamic instrumentation are supported. This extension is shipped as part of [Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage) NuGet package.

> [!NOTE]
> Unmanaged (native) code coverage is disabled in the extension by default. Use flags `EnableStaticNativeInstrumentation` and `EnableDynamicNativeInstrumentation` to enable it if needed.
> For more information about unmanaged code coverage, see [Static and dynamic native instrumentation](/visualstudio/test/customizing-code-coverage-analysis?#static-and-dynamic-native-instrumentation).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The package is shipped with Microsoft .NET library closed-source free to use licensing model.

For more information about Microsoft code coverage, see its [GitHub page](https://github.com/microsoft/codecoverage).

Microsoft Code Coverage provides the following options:

| Option                     | Description                                                                   |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--coverage`               | Collect the code coverage using dotnet-coverage tool.                         |
| `--coverage-output`        | The name or path of the produced coverage file. By default, the file is `TestResults/<guid>.coverage`. |
| `--coverage-output-format` | Output file format. Supported values are: `coverage`, `xml`, and `cobertura`. Default is `coverage`. |
| `--coverage-settings`      | [XML code coverage settings](../additional-tools/dotnet-coverage.md#settings). |

For more information about the available options, see [settings](../additional-tools/dotnet-coverage.md#settings) and [samples](https://github.com/microsoft/codecoverage/tree/main/samples/Algorithms).

> [!NOTE]
> The default value of `IncludeTestAssembly` in Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage is `false`, while it used to be `true` in VSTest. This means that test projects are excluded by default. For more information, see [Code Coverage configuration](https://github.com/microsoft/codecoverage/blob/main/docs/configuration.md).

## Version compatibility

The following table shows the compatibility between different versions of Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage and Microsoft.Testing.Platform:

| Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage | Microsoft.Testing.Platform |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| 18.1.x                                  | 2.0.x                     |
| 18.0.x                                  | 1.8.x                     |
| 17.14.x                                  | 1.6.2                     |

> [!NOTE]
> For the best compatibility and latest features, it's recommended to use the latest versions of both packages together.

## Coverlet

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `coverlet.collector` NuGet package is designed specifically for VSTest and cannot be used with `Microsoft.Testing.Platform`.

There's currently no Coverlet extension, but you can use [Coverlet .NET global tool](https://github.com/coverlet-coverage/coverlet#net-global-tool-guide-suffers-from-possible-known-issue).

Assuming you've already installed the Coverlet global tool, you can now run:

```bash
coverlet .\bin\Debug\net8.0\TestProject2.dll --target "dotnet" --targetargs "test .\bin\Debug\net8.0\TestProject2.dll --no-build"
```
