docs/csharp/fundamentals/coding-style/identifier-names.md, before:

---
title: "C# identifier names - rules and conventions"
description: "Learn the rules for valid identifier names in the C# programming language. In addition, learn the common naming conventions used by the .NET runtime team and the .NET docs team."
ms.date: 07/27/2023
---
# C# identifier naming rules and conventions

An **identifier** is the name you assign to a type (class, interface, struct, delegate, or enum), member, variable, or namespace.

## Naming rules

Valid identifiers must follow these rules:

- Identifiers must start with a letter or underscore (`_`).
- Identifiers may contain Unicode letter characters, decimal digit characters, Unicode connecting characters, Unicode combining characters, or Unicode formatting characters. For more information on Unicode categories, see the [Unicode Category Database](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr44/).

You can declare identifiers that match C# keywords by using the `@` prefix on the identifier. The `@` isn't part of the identifier name. For example, `@if` declares an identifier named `if`. These [verbatim identifiers](../../language-reference/tokens/verbatim.md) are primarily for interoperability with identifiers declared in other languages.

For a complete definition of valid identifiers, see the [Identifiers article in the C# Language Specification](~/_csharpstandard/standard/lexical-structure.md#643-identifiers).

## Naming conventions

In addition to the rules, there are many identifier [naming conventions](../../../standard/design-guidelines/naming-guidelines.md) used throughout the .NET APIs. By convention, C# programs use `PascalCase` for type names, namespaces, and all public members. In addition, the following conventions are common:

- Interface names start with a capital `I`.
- Attribute types end with the word `Attribute`.
- Enum types use a singular noun for nonflags, and a plural noun for flags.
- Identifiers shouldn't contain two consecutive underscore (`_`) characters. Those names are reserved for compiler-generated identifiers.
- Use meaningful and descriptive names for variables, methods, and classes.
- Avoid using single-letter names, except for simple loop counters. See exceptions for syntax examples noted in the following section.
- Prefer clarity over brevity.
- Use PascalCase for class names and method names.
- Use camelCase for method arguments, local variables, and private fields.
- Use PascalCase for constant names, both fields and local constants.
- Instance fields start with an underscore (`_`).
- Static fields start with `s_`. Note that this isn't the default Visual Studio behavior, nor part of the [Framework design guidelines](../../../standard/design-guidelines/names-of-type-members.md#names-of-fields), but is configurable in editorconfig.
- Avoid using abbreviations or acronyms in names, except for widely known and accepted abbreviations.
- Use meaningful and descriptive namespaces that follow the reverse domain name notation.
- Choose assembly names that represent the primary purpose of the assembly.

The examples that describe the syntax of C# constructs often use single letter names that match the convention used in the [C# language specification](~/_csharpstandard/standard/readme.md):

- Use `S` for structs, `C` for classes.
- Use `M` for methods.
- Use `v` for variables, `p` for parameters.
- Use `r` for `ref` parameters.

The preceding single-letter names are allowed only in the language reference section.

In the following examples, guidance pertaining to elements marked `public` is applicable when working with `protected` and `protected internal` elements, all of which are intended to be visible to external callers.

### Pascal case

Use pascal casing ("PascalCasing") when naming a `class`, `Interface`, `struct`, or `delegate` type.

```csharp
public class DataService
{
}
```

```csharp
public record PhysicalAddress(
    string Street,
    string City,
    string StateOrProvince,
    string ZipCode);
```

```csharp
public struct ValueCoordinate
{
}
```

```csharp
public delegate void DelegateType(string message);
```

When naming an `interface`, use pascal casing in addition to prefixing the name with an `I`. This prefix clearly indicates to consumers that it's an `interface`.

```csharp
public interface IWorkerQueue
{
}
```

When naming `public` members of types, such as fields, properties, events, use pascal casing. Also, use pascal casing for all methods and local functions.

```csharp
public class ExampleEvents
{
    // A public field, these should be used sparingly
    public bool IsValid;

    // An init-only property
    public IWorkerQueue WorkerQueue { get; init; }

    // An event
    public event Action EventProcessing;

    // Method
    public void StartEventProcessing()
    {
        // Local function
        static int CountQueueItems() => WorkerQueue.Count;
        // ...
    }
}
```

When writing positional records, use pascal casing for parameters as they're the public properties of the record.

```csharp
public record PhysicalAddress(
    string Street,
    string City,
    string StateOrProvince,
    string ZipCode);
```

For more information on positional records, see [Positional syntax for property definition](../../language-reference/builtin-types/record.md#positional-syntax-for-property-definition).

### Camel case

Use camel casing ("camelCasing") when naming `private` or `internal` fields and prefix them with `_`. Use camel casing when naming local variables, including instances of a delegate type.

```csharp
public class DataService
{
    private IWorkerQueue _workerQueue;
}
```

> [!TIP]
> When editing C# code that follows these naming conventions in an IDE that supports statement completion, typing `_` will show all of the object-scoped members.

When working with `static` fields that are `private` or `internal`, use the `s_` prefix and for thread static use `t_`.

```csharp
public class DataService
{
    private static IWorkerQueue s_workerQueue;

    [ThreadStatic]
    private static TimeSpan t_timeSpan;
}
```

When writing method parameters, use camel casing.

```csharp
public T SomeMethod<T>(int someNumber, bool isValid)
{
}
```

For more information on C# naming conventions, see [C# Coding Style](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/coding-guidelines/coding-style.md).

### Type parameter naming guidelines

The following guidelines apply to type parameters on generic type parameters. These are the placeholders for arguments in a generic type or a generic method. You can read more about [generic type parameters](../../programming-guide/generics/generic-type-parameters.md) in the C# programming guide.

- **Do** name generic type parameters with descriptive names, unless a single letter name is completely self explanatory and a descriptive name would not add value.

   :::code language="./snippets/coding-conventions" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/Program.cs" id="TypeParametersOne":::

- **Consider** using T as the type parameter name for types with one single letter type parameter.

   :::code language="./snippets/coding-conventions" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/Program.cs" id="TypeParametersTwo":::

- **Do** prefix descriptive type parameter names with "T".

   :::code language="./snippets/coding-conventions" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/Program.cs" id="TypeParametersThree":::

- **Consider** indicating constraints placed on a type parameter in the name of parameter. For example, a parameter constrained to `ISession` may be called `TSession`.

The code analysis rule [CA1715](/visualstudio/code-quality/ca1715) can be used to ensure that type parameters are named appropriately.

### Extra naming conventions

- Examples that don't include [using directives](../../language-reference/keywords/using-directive.md), use namespace qualifications. If you know that a namespace is imported by default in a project, you don't have to fully qualify the names from that namespace. Qualified names can be broken after a dot (.) if they're too long for a single line, as shown in the following example.

  :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/program.cs" id="Snippet1":::

- You don't have to change the names of objects that were created by using the Visual Studio designer tools to make them fit other guidelines.

Commit message:

Reference runtime convention
The use of `_` and `s_` follow the runtime conventions. I'd missed that in the previous commit.

docs/csharp/fundamentals/coding-style/identifier-names.md, after:

---
title: "C# identifier names - rules and conventions"
description: "Learn the rules for valid identifier names in the C# programming language. In addition, learn the common naming conventions used by the .NET runtime team and the .NET docs team."
ms.date: 07/27/2023
---
# C# identifier naming rules and conventions

An **identifier** is the name you assign to a type (class, interface, struct, delegate, or enum), member, variable, or namespace.

## Naming rules

Valid identifiers must follow these rules:

- Identifiers must start with a letter or underscore (`_`).
- Identifiers may contain Unicode letter characters, decimal digit characters, Unicode connecting characters, Unicode combining characters, or Unicode formatting characters. For more information on Unicode categories, see the [Unicode Category Database](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr44/).

You can declare identifiers that match C# keywords by using the `@` prefix on the identifier. The `@` isn't part of the identifier name. For example, `@if` declares an identifier named `if`. These [verbatim identifiers](../../language-reference/tokens/verbatim.md) are primarily for interoperability with identifiers declared in other languages.

For a complete definition of valid identifiers, see the [Identifiers article in the C# Language Specification](~/_csharpstandard/standard/lexical-structure.md#643-identifiers).

## Naming conventions

In addition to the rules, there are many identifier [naming conventions](../../../standard/design-guidelines/naming-guidelines.md) used throughout the .NET APIs. By convention, C# programs use `PascalCase` for type names, namespaces, and all public members. In addition, the `dotnet/docs` team uses the following conventions, adopted from the [.NET Runtime team coding style](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/coding-guidelines/coding-style.md):

- Interface names start with a capital `I`.
- Attribute types end with the word `Attribute`.
- Enum types use a singular noun for nonflags, and a plural noun for flags.
- Identifiers shouldn't contain two consecutive underscore (`_`) characters. Those names are reserved for compiler-generated identifiers.
- Use meaningful and descriptive names for variables, methods, and classes.
- Avoid using single-letter names, except for simple loop counters. See exceptions for syntax examples noted in the following section.
- Prefer clarity over brevity.
- Use PascalCase for class names and method names.
- Use camelCase for method arguments, local variables, and private fields.
- Use PascalCase for constant names, both fields and local constants.
- Instance fields start with an underscore (`_`).
- Static fields start with `s_`. Note that this isn't the default Visual Studio behavior, nor part of the [Framework design guidelines](../../../standard/design-guidelines/names-of-type-members.md#names-of-fields), but is configurable in editorconfig.
- Avoid using abbreviations or acronyms in names, except for widely known and accepted abbreviations.
- Use meaningful and descriptive namespaces that follow the reverse domain name notation.
- Choose assembly names that represent the primary purpose of the assembly.

The examples that describe the syntax of C# constructs often use single letter names that match the convention used in the [C# language specification](~/_csharpstandard/standard/readme.md):

- Use `S` for structs, `C` for classes.
- Use `M` for methods.
- Use `v` for variables, `p` for parameters.
- Use `r` for `ref` parameters.

The preceding single-letter names are allowed only in the language reference section.

In the following examples, guidance pertaining to elements marked `public` is applicable when working with `protected` and `protected internal` elements, all of which are intended to be visible to external callers.

### Pascal case

Use pascal casing ("PascalCasing") when naming a `class`, `Interface`, `struct`, or `delegate` type.

```csharp
public class DataService
{
}
```

```csharp
public record PhysicalAddress(
    string Street,
    string City,
    string StateOrProvince,
    string ZipCode);
```

```csharp
public struct ValueCoordinate
{
}
```

```csharp
public delegate void DelegateType(string message);
```

When naming an `interface`, use pascal casing in addition to prefixing the name with an `I`. This prefix clearly indicates to consumers that it's an `interface`.

```csharp
public interface IWorkerQueue
{
}
```

When naming `public` members of types, such as fields, properties, events, use pascal casing. Also, use pascal casing for all methods and local functions.

```csharp
public class ExampleEvents
{
    // A public field, these should be used sparingly
    public bool IsValid;

    // An init-only property
    public IWorkerQueue WorkerQueue { get; init; }

    // An event
    public event Action EventProcessing;

    // Method
    public void StartEventProcessing()
    {
        // Local function
        static int CountQueueItems() => WorkerQueue.Count;
        // ...
    }
}
```

When writing positional records, use pascal casing for parameters as they're the public properties of the record.

```csharp
public record PhysicalAddress(
    string Street,
    string City,
    string StateOrProvince,
    string ZipCode);
```

For more information on positional records, see [Positional syntax for property definition](../../language-reference/builtin-types/record.md#positional-syntax-for-property-definition).

### Camel case

Use camel casing ("camelCasing") when naming `private` or `internal` fields and prefix them with `_`. Use camel casing when naming local variables, including instances of a delegate type.

```csharp
public class DataService
{
    private IWorkerQueue _workerQueue;
}
```

> [!TIP]
> When editing C# code that follows these naming conventions in an IDE that supports statement completion, typing `_` will show all of the object-scoped members.

When working with `static` fields that are `private` or `internal`, use the `s_` prefix and for thread static use `t_`.

```csharp
public class DataService
{
    private static IWorkerQueue s_workerQueue;

    [ThreadStatic]
    private static TimeSpan t_timeSpan;
}
```

When writing method parameters, use camel casing.

```csharp
public T SomeMethod<T>(int someNumber, bool isValid)
{
}
```

For more information on C# naming conventions, see [C# Coding Style](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/coding-guidelines/coding-style.md).

### Type parameter naming guidelines

The following guidelines apply to type parameters on generic type parameters. These are the placeholders for arguments in a generic type or a generic method. You can read more about [generic type parameters](../../programming-guide/generics/generic-type-parameters.md) in the C# programming guide.

- **Do** name generic type parameters with descriptive names, unless a single letter name is completely self explanatory and a descriptive name would not add value.

   :::code language="./snippets/coding-conventions" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/Program.cs" id="TypeParametersOne":::

- **Consider** using T as the type parameter name for types with one single letter type parameter.

   :::code language="./snippets/coding-conventions" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/Program.cs" id="TypeParametersTwo":::

- **Do** prefix descriptive type parameter names with "T".

   :::code language="./snippets/coding-conventions" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/Program.cs" id="TypeParametersThree":::

- **Consider** indicating constraints placed on a type parameter in the name of parameter. For example, a parameter constrained to `ISession` may be called `TSession`.

The code analysis rule [CA1715](/visualstudio/code-quality/ca1715) can be used to ensure that type parameters are named appropriately.

### Extra naming conventions

- Examples that don't include [using directives](../../language-reference/keywords/using-directive.md), use namespace qualifications. If you know that a namespace is imported by default in a project, you don't have to fully qualify the names from that namespace. Qualified names can be broken after a dot (.) if they're too long for a single line, as shown in the following example.

  :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/coding-conventions/program.cs" id="Snippet1":::

- You don't have to change the names of objects that were created by using the Visual Studio designer tools to make them fit other guidelines.
