docs/csharp/linq/perform-inner-joins.md, before:

---
title: Perform inner joins (LINQ in C#)
description: Learn how to perform inner joins using LINQ in C#.
ms.date: 12/01/2016
ms.assetid: 45bceed6-f549-4114-a9b1-b44feb497742
---
# Perform inner joins

In relational database terms, an *inner join* produces a result set in which each element of the first collection appears one time for every matching element in the second collection. If an element in the first collection has no matching elements, it does not appear in the result set. The <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A> method, which is called by the `join` clause in C#, implements an inner join.

This article shows you how to perform four variations of an inner join:

- A simple inner join that correlates elements from two data sources based on a simple key.

- An inner join that correlates elements from two data sources based on a *composite* key. A composite key, which is a key that consists of more than one value, enables you to correlate elements based on more than one property.

- A *multiple join* in which successive join operations are appended to each other.

- An inner join that is implemented by using a group join.

> [!NOTE]
> The examples in this topic use the following data classes:
>
> :::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/DataClasses.cs" id="inner_joins_0":::
>
> as well as the `Student` class from [Query a collection of objects](query-a-collection-of-objects.md).

## Example - Simple key join

The following example creates two collections that contain objects of two user-defined types, `Person` and `Pet`. The query uses the `join` clause in C# to match `Person` objects with `Pet` objects whose `Owner` is that `Person`. The `select` clause in C# defines how the resulting objects will look. In this example the resulting objects are anonymous types that consist of the owner's first name and the pet's name.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_1":::

Note that the `Person` object whose `LastName` is "Huff" does not appear in the result set because there is no `Pet` object that has `Pet.Owner` equal to that `Person`.

## Example - Composite key join

Instead of correlating elements based on just one property, you can use a composite key to compare elements based on multiple properties. To do this, specify the key selector function for each collection to return an anonymous type that consists of the properties you want to compare. If you label the properties, they must have the same label in each key's anonymous type. The properties must also appear in the same order.

The following example uses a list of `Employee` objects and a list of `Student` objects to determine which employees are also students. Both of these types have a `FirstName` and a `LastName` property of type <xref:System.String>. The functions that create the join keys from each list's elements return an anonymous type that consists of the `FirstName` and `LastName` properties of each element. The join operation compares these composite keys for equality and returns pairs of objects from each list where both the first name and the last name match.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_2":::

## Example - Multiple join

Any number of join operations can be appended to each other to perform a multiple join. Each `join` clause in C# correlates a specified data source with the results of the previous join.

The following example creates three collections: a list of `Person` objects, a list of `Cat` objects, and a list of `Dog` objects.

The first `join` clause in C# matches people and cats based on a `Person` object matching `Cat.Owner`. It returns a sequence of anonymous types that contain the `Person` object and `Cat.Name`.

The second `join` clause in C# correlates the anonymous types returned by the first join with `Dog` objects in the supplied list of dogs, based on a composite key that consists of the `Owner` property of type `Person`, and the first letter of the animal's name. It returns a sequence of anonymous types that contain the `Cat.Name` and `Dog.Name` properties from each matching pair. Because this is an inner join, only those objects from the first data source that have a match in the second data source are returned.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_3":::

## Example - Inner join by using grouped join

The following example shows you how to implement an inner join by using a group join.

In `query1`, the list of `Person` objects is group-joined to the list of `Pet` objects based on the `Person` matching the `Pet.Owner` property. The group join creates a collection of intermediate groups, where each group consists of a `Person` object and a sequence of matching `Pet` objects.

By adding a second `from` clause to the query, this sequence of sequences is combined (or flattened) into one longer sequence. The type of the elements of the final sequence is specified by the `select` clause. In this example, that type is an anonymous type that consists of the `Person.FirstName` and `Pet.Name` properties for each matching pair.

The result of `query1` is equivalent to the result set that would have been obtained by using the `join` clause without the `into` clause to perform an inner join. The `query2` variable demonstrates this equivalent query.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_4":::

## See also

- <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A>
- <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.GroupJoin%2A>
- [Perform grouped joins](perform-grouped-joins.md)
- [Perform left outer joins](perform-left-outer-joins.md)
- [Anonymous types](../fundamentals/types/anonymous-types.md)

Commit message:

Provide `Perform inner joins` article with method-based syntax examples (#36376)
* Implement method syntax approach for each inner join example

* Invoke the method-syntax methods in Program

* Adjust tests to cover the equality between query and method syntax results

* Add the method-syntax examples to the Inner Joins page

* Correct capitalization of a note for grouped joins

Co-authored-by: Bill Wagner <wiwagn@microsoft.com>

* Use 2nd person for advices in Inner joins docs

Co-authored-by: Bill Wagner <wiwagn@microsoft.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Bill Wagner <wiwagn@microsoft.com>

docs/csharp/linq/perform-inner-joins.md, after:

---
title: Perform inner joins (LINQ in C#)
description: Learn how to perform inner joins using LINQ in C#.
ms.date: 12/01/2016
ms.assetid: 45bceed6-f549-4114-a9b1-b44feb497742
---
# Perform inner joins

In relational database terms, an *inner join* produces a result set in which each element of the first collection appears one time for every matching element in the second collection. If an element in the first collection has no matching elements, it does not appear in the result set. The <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A> method, which is called by the `join` clause in C#, implements an inner join.

This article shows you how to perform four variations of an inner join:

- A simple inner join that correlates elements from two data sources based on a simple key.

- An inner join that correlates elements from two data sources based on a *composite* key. A composite key, which is a key that consists of more than one value, enables you to correlate elements based on more than one property.

- A *multiple join* in which successive join operations are appended to each other.

- An inner join that is implemented by using a group join.

> [!NOTE]
> The examples in this topic use the following data classes:
>
> :::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/DataClasses.cs" id="inner_joins_0":::
>
> as well as the `Student` class from [Query a collection of objects](query-a-collection-of-objects.md).

## Example - Simple key join

The following example creates two collections that contain objects of two user-defined types, `Person` and `Pet`. The query uses the `join` clause in C# to match `Person` objects with `Pet` objects whose `Owner` is that `Person`. The `select` clause in C# defines how the resulting objects will look. In this example the resulting objects are anonymous types that consist of the owner's first name and the pet's name.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_1":::

You achieve the same results using the <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A> method syntax:

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_method_syntax_1":::

Note that the `Person` object whose `LastName` is "Huff" does not appear in the result set because there is no `Pet` object that has `Pet.Owner` equal to that `Person`.

## Example - Composite key join

Instead of correlating elements based on just one property, you can use a composite key to compare elements based on multiple properties. To do this, specify the key selector function for each collection to return an anonymous type that consists of the properties you want to compare. If you label the properties, they must have the same label in each key's anonymous type. The properties must also appear in the same order.

The following example uses a list of `Employee` objects and a list of `Student` objects to determine which employees are also students. Both of these types have a `FirstName` and a `LastName` property of type <xref:System.String>. The functions that create the join keys from each list's elements return an anonymous type that consists of the `FirstName` and `LastName` properties of each element. The join operation compares these composite keys for equality and returns pairs of objects from each list where both the first name and the last name match.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_2":::

You can use the <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A> method, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_method_syntax_2":::

## Example - Multiple join

Any number of join operations can be appended to each other to perform a multiple join. Each `join` clause in C# correlates a specified data source with the results of the previous join.

The following example creates three collections: a list of `Person` objects, a list of `Cat` objects, and a list of `Dog` objects.

The first `join` clause in C# matches people and cats based on a `Person` object matching `Cat.Owner`. It returns a sequence of anonymous types that contain the `Person` object and `Cat.Name`.

The second `join` clause in C# correlates the anonymous types returned by the first join with `Dog` objects in the supplied list of dogs, based on a composite key that consists of the `Owner` property of type `Person`, and the first letter of the animal's name. It returns a sequence of anonymous types that contain the `Cat.Name` and `Dog.Name` properties from each matching pair. Because this is an inner join, only those objects from the first data source that have a match in the second data source are returned.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_3":::

The equivalent using multiple <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A> method uses the same approach with the anonymous type (in the example below it's named `commonOwner`):

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_method_syntax_3":::

## Example - Inner join by using grouped join

The following example shows you how to implement an inner join by using a group join.

In `query1`, the list of `Person` objects is group-joined to the list of `Pet` objects based on the `Person` matching the `Pet.Owner` property. The group join creates a collection of intermediate groups, where each group consists of a `Person` object and a sequence of matching `Pet` objects.

By adding a second `from` clause to the query, this sequence of sequences is combined (or flattened) into one longer sequence. The type of the elements of the final sequence is specified by the `select` clause. In this example, that type is an anonymous type that consists of the `Person.FirstName` and `Pet.Name` properties for each matching pair.

The result of `query1` is equivalent to the result set that would have been obtained by using the `join` clause without the `into` clause to perform an inner join. The `query2` variable demonstrates this equivalent query.

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_4":::

The same results can be achieved using <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.GroupJoin%2A> method, as follows:

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_method_syntax_4":::

Note that this approach requires chaining the query results with <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.SelectMany%2A> to create the final list of Owner - Pet relation based on the results of group join. To avoid chaining, the single <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A> method can be used as presented below:

:::code language="csharp" source="../../../samples/snippets/csharp/concepts/linq/LinqSamples/InnerJoins.cs" id="inner_joins_method_syntax_5":::

## See also

- <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Join%2A>
- <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.GroupJoin%2A>
- [Perform grouped joins](perform-grouped-joins.md)
- [Perform left outer joins](perform-left-outer-joins.md)
- [Anonymous types](../fundamentals/types/anonymous-types.md)
