docs/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md, before:

---
title: "Structure types - C# reference"
description: Learn about the struct type in C#
ms.date: 09/15/2021
f1_keywords: 
  - "struct_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "struct keyword [C#]"
  - "struct type [C#]"
  - "structure type [C#]"
ms.assetid: ff3dd9b7-dc93-4720-8855-ef5558f65c7c
---
# Structure types (C# reference)

A *structure type* (or *struct type*) is a [value type](value-types.md) that can encapsulate data and related functionality. You use the `struct` keyword to define a structure type:

[!code-csharp[struct example](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#StructExample)]

Structure types have *value semantics*. That is, a variable of a structure type contains an instance of the type. By default, variable values are copied on assignment, passing an argument to a method, and returning a method result. In the case of a structure-type variable, an instance of the type is copied. For more information, see [Value types](value-types.md).

Typically, you use structure types to design small data-centric types that provide little or no behavior. For example, .NET uses structure types to represent a number (both [integer](integral-numeric-types.md) and [real](floating-point-numeric-types.md)), a [Boolean value](bool.md), a [Unicode character](char.md), a [time instance](xref:System.DateTime). If you're focused on the behavior of a type, consider defining a [class](../keywords/class.md). Class types have *reference semantics*. That is, a variable of a class type contains a reference to an instance of the type, not the instance itself.

Because structure types have value semantics, we recommend you to define *immutable* structure types.

## `readonly` struct

Beginning with C# 7.2, you use the `readonly` modifier to declare that a structure type is immutable. All data members of a `readonly` struct must be read-only as follows:

- Any field declaration must have the [`readonly` modifier](../keywords/readonly.md)
- Any property, including auto-implemented ones, must be read-only. In C# 9.0 and later, a property may have an [`init` accessor](../keywords/init.md).

That guarantees that no member of a `readonly` struct modifies the state of the struct. In C# 8.0 and later, that means that other instance members except constructors are implicitly [`readonly`](#readonly-instance-members).

> [!NOTE]
> In a `readonly` struct, a data member of a mutable reference type still can mutate its own state. For example, you can't replace a <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601> instance, but you can add new elements to it.

The following code defines a `readonly` struct with init-only property setters, available in C# 9.0 and later:

[!code-csharp[readonly struct](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyStruct)]

## `readonly` instance members

Beginning with C# 8.0, you can also use the `readonly` modifier to declare that an instance member doesn't modify the state of a struct. If you can't declare the whole structure type as `readonly`, use the `readonly` modifier to mark the instance members that don't modify the state of the struct.

Within a `readonly` instance member, you can't assign to structure's instance fields. However, a `readonly` member can call a non-`readonly` member. In that case the compiler creates a copy of the structure instance and calls the non-`readonly` member on that copy. As a result, the original structure instance is not modified.

Typically, you apply the `readonly` modifier to the following kinds of instance members:

- methods:

  [!code-csharp[readonly method](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyMethod)]

  You can also apply the `readonly` modifier to methods that override methods declared in <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=nameWithType>:

  [!code-csharp[readonly override](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyOverride)]

- properties and indexers:

  [!code-csharp[readonly property get](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyProperty)]

  If you need to apply the `readonly` modifier to both accessors of a property or indexer, apply it in the declaration of the property or indexer.

  > [!NOTE]
  > The compiler declares a `get` accessor of an [auto-implemented property](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/auto-implemented-properties.md) as `readonly`, regardless of presence of the `readonly` modifier in a property declaration.

  In C# 9.0 and later, you may apply the `readonly` modifier to a property or indexer with an `init` accessor:

  :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="ReadonlyWithInit":::

You can't apply the `readonly` modifier to static members of a structure type.

The compiler may make use of the `readonly` modifier for performance optimizations. For more information, see [Write safe and efficient C# code](../../write-safe-efficient-code.md).

## Nondestructive mutation

Beginning with C# 10, you can use the [`with` expression](../operators/with-expression.md) to produce a copy of a structure-type instance with the specified properties and fields modified. You use [object initializer](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/object-and-collection-initializers.md) syntax to specify what members to modify and their new values, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="WithExpression":::

## Limitations with the design of a structure type

When you design a structure type, you have the same capabilities as with a [class](../keywords/class.md) type, with the following exceptions:

- You can't declare a parameterless constructor. Every structure type already provides an implicit parameterless constructor that produces the [default value](default-values.md) of the type.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Beginning with C# 10, you can declare a parameterless constructor in a structure type. For more information, see the [Parameterless constructors and field initializers](#parameterless-constructors-and-field-initializers) section.

- You can't initialize an instance field or property at its declaration. However, you can initialize a [static](../keywords/static.md) or [const](../keywords/const.md) field or a static property at its declaration.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Beginning with C# 10, you can initialize an instance field or property at its declaration. For more information, see the [Parameterless constructors and field initializers](#parameterless-constructors-and-field-initializers) section.

- A constructor of a structure type must initialize all instance fields of the type.

- A structure type can't inherit from other class or structure type and it can't be the base of a class. However, a structure type can implement [interfaces](../keywords/interface.md).

- You can't declare a [finalizer](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/finalizers.md) within a structure type.

## Parameterless constructors and field initializers

Beginning with C# 10, you can declare a parameterless instance constructor in a structure type, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="ParameterlessConstructor":::

As the preceding example shows, the [default value expression](../operators/default.md) ignores a parameterless constructor and produces the default value of a structure type, which is the value produced by setting all value-type fields to their [default values](default-values.md) (the 0-bit pattern) and all reference-type fields to `null`. Structure-type array instantiation also ignores a parameterless constructor and produces an array populated with the default values of a structure type.

Beginning with C# 10, you can also initialize an instance field or property at its declaration, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="FieldInitializer":::

If you don't declare a parameterless constructor explicitly, a structure type provides a parameterless constructor whose behavior is as follows:

- If a structure type has explicit instance constructors or has no field initializers, an implicit parameterless constructor produces the default value of a structure type, regardless of field initializers, as the preceding example shows.
- If a structure type has no explicit instance constructors and has field initializers, the compiler synthesizes a public parameterless constructor that performs the specified field initializations, as the following example shows:

  :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="FieldInitializerNoConstructor":::

As the preceding example shows, the default value expression and array instantiation ignore field initializers.

For more information, see the [Parameterless struct constructors](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-10.0/parameterless-struct-constructors.md) feature proposal note.

## Instantiation of a structure type

In C#, you must initialize a declared variable before it can be used. Because a structure-type variable can't be `null` (unless it's a variable of a [nullable value type](nullable-value-types.md)), you must instantiate an instance of the corresponding type. There are several ways to do that.

Typically, you instantiate a structure type by calling an appropriate constructor with the [`new`](../operators/new-operator.md) operator. Every structure type has at least one constructor. That's an implicit parameterless constructor, which produces the [default value](default-values.md) of the type. You can also use a [default value expression](../operators/default.md) to produce the default value of a type.

If all instance fields of a structure type are accessible, you can also instantiate it without the `new` operator. In that case you must initialize all instance fields before the first use of the instance. The following example shows how to do that:

[!code-csharp[without new](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#WithoutNew)]

In the case of the [built-in value types](value-types.md#built-in-value-types), use the corresponding literals to specify a value of the type.

## Passing structure-type variables by reference

When you pass a structure-type variable to a method as an argument or return a structure-type value from a method, the whole instance of a structure type is copied. That can affect the performance of your code in high-performance scenarios that involve large structure types. You can avoid value copying by passing a structure-type variable by reference. Use the [`ref`](../keywords/ref.md#passing-an-argument-by-reference), [`out`](../keywords/out-parameter-modifier.md), or [`in`](../keywords/in-parameter-modifier.md) method parameter modifiers to indicate that an argument must be passed by reference. Use [ref returns](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/ref-returns.md) to return a method result by reference. For more information, see [Write safe and efficient C# code](../../write-safe-efficient-code.md).

## `ref` struct

Beginning with C# 7.2, you can use the `ref` modifier in the declaration of a structure type. Instances of a `ref` struct type are allocated on the stack and can't escape to the managed heap. To ensure that, the compiler limits the usage of `ref` struct types as follows:

- A `ref` struct can't be the element type of an array.
- A `ref` struct can't be a declared type of a field of a class or a non-`ref` struct.
- A `ref` struct can't implement interfaces.
- A `ref` struct can't be boxed to <xref:System.ValueType?displayProperty=nameWithType> or <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
- A `ref` struct can't be a type argument.
- A `ref` struct variable can't be captured by a [lambda expression](../operators/lambda-expressions.md) or a [local function](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/local-functions.md).
- A `ref` struct variable can't be used in an [`async`](../keywords/async.md) method. However, you can use `ref` struct variables in synchronous methods, for example, in those that return <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> or <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task%601>.
- A `ref` struct variable can't be used in [iterators](../../iterators.md).

Beginning with C# 8.0, you can define a disposable `ref` struct. To do that, ensure that a `ref` struct fits the [disposable pattern](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/using.md#pattern-based-using). That is, it has an instance or extension `Dispose` method, which is accessible, parameterless and has a `void` return type.

Typically, you define a `ref` struct type when you need a type that also includes data members of `ref` struct types:

[!code-csharp[ref struct](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#RefStruct)]

To declare a `ref` struct as [`readonly`](#readonly-struct), combine the `readonly` and `ref` modifiers in the type declaration (the `readonly` modifier must come before the `ref` modifier):

[!code-csharp[readonly ref struct](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyRef)]

In .NET, examples of a `ref` struct are <xref:System.Span%601?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.ReadOnlySpan%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## struct constraint

You also use the `struct` keyword in the [`struct` constraint](../../programming-guide/generics/constraints-on-type-parameters.md) to specify that a type parameter is a non-nullable value type. Both structure and [enumeration](enum.md) types satisfy the `struct` constraint.

## Conversions

For any structure type (except [`ref` struct](#ref-struct) types), there exist [boxing and unboxing](../../programming-guide/types/boxing-and-unboxing.md) conversions to and from the <xref:System.ValueType?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=nameWithType> types. There exist also boxing and unboxing conversions between a structure type and any interface that it implements.

## C# language specification

For more information, see the [Structs](~/_csharplang/spec/structs.md) section of the [C# language specification](~/_csharplang/spec/introduction.md).

For more information about features introduced in C# 7.2 and later, see the following feature proposal notes:

- [Readonly structs](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.2/readonly-ref.md#readonly-structs)
- [Readonly instance members](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/readonly-instance-members.md)
- [Compile-time safety for ref-like types](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.2/span-safety.md)
- [Parameterless struct constructors](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-10.0/parameterless-struct-constructors.md)
- [Allow `with` expression on structs](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-10.0/record-structs.md#allow-with-expression-on-structs)

## See also

- [C# reference](../index.md)
- [Design guidelines - Choosing between class and struct](../../../standard/design-guidelines/choosing-between-class-and-struct.md)
- [Design guidelines - Struct design](../../../standard/design-guidelines/struct.md)
- [The C# type system](../../fundamentals/types/index.md)

Commit message:

Fixes #27149
This first commit fixes #27149

In addition to the notes on that issues, emphasize the difference in the behavior of the synthesized parameterless constructor based on the presence of field initializers and other instance constructors.

docs/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/struct.md, after:

---
title: "Structure types - C# reference"
description: Learn about the struct type in C#
ms.date: 09/15/2021
f1_keywords: 
  - "struct_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "struct keyword [C#]"
  - "struct type [C#]"
  - "structure type [C#]"
ms.assetid: ff3dd9b7-dc93-4720-8855-ef5558f65c7c
---
# Structure types (C# reference)

A *structure type* (or *struct type*) is a [value type](value-types.md) that can encapsulate data and related functionality. You use the `struct` keyword to define a structure type:

[!code-csharp[struct example](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#StructExample)]

Structure types have *value semantics*. That is, a variable of a structure type contains an instance of the type. By default, variable values are copied on assignment, passing an argument to a method, and returning a method result. In the case of a structure-type variable, an instance of the type is copied. For more information, see [Value types](value-types.md).

Typically, you use structure types to design small data-centric types that provide little or no behavior. For example, .NET uses structure types to represent a number (both [integer](integral-numeric-types.md) and [real](floating-point-numeric-types.md)), a [Boolean value](bool.md), a [Unicode character](char.md), a [time instance](xref:System.DateTime). If you're focused on the behavior of a type, consider defining a [class](../keywords/class.md). Class types have *reference semantics*. That is, a variable of a class type contains a reference to an instance of the type, not the instance itself.

Because structure types have value semantics, we recommend you to define *immutable* structure types.

## `readonly` struct

Beginning with C# 7.2, you use the `readonly` modifier to declare that a structure type is immutable. All data members of a `readonly` struct must be read-only as follows:

- Any field declaration must have the [`readonly` modifier](../keywords/readonly.md)
- Any property, including auto-implemented ones, must be read-only. In C# 9.0 and later, a property may have an [`init` accessor](../keywords/init.md).

That guarantees that no member of a `readonly` struct modifies the state of the struct. In C# 8.0 and later, that means that other instance members except constructors are implicitly [`readonly`](#readonly-instance-members).

> [!NOTE]
> In a `readonly` struct, a data member of a mutable reference type still can mutate its own state. For example, you can't replace a <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601> instance, but you can add new elements to it.

The following code defines a `readonly` struct with init-only property setters, available in C# 9.0 and later:

[!code-csharp[readonly struct](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyStruct)]

## `readonly` instance members

Beginning with C# 8.0, you can also use the `readonly` modifier to declare that an instance member doesn't modify the state of a struct. If you can't declare the whole structure type as `readonly`, use the `readonly` modifier to mark the instance members that don't modify the state of the struct.

Within a `readonly` instance member, you can't assign to structure's instance fields. However, a `readonly` member can call a non-`readonly` member. In that case the compiler creates a copy of the structure instance and calls the non-`readonly` member on that copy. As a result, the original structure instance is not modified.

Typically, you apply the `readonly` modifier to the following kinds of instance members:

- methods:

  [!code-csharp[readonly method](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyMethod)]

  You can also apply the `readonly` modifier to methods that override methods declared in <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=nameWithType>:

  [!code-csharp[readonly override](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyOverride)]

- properties and indexers:

  [!code-csharp[readonly property get](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyProperty)]

  If you need to apply the `readonly` modifier to both accessors of a property or indexer, apply it in the declaration of the property or indexer.

  > [!NOTE]
  > The compiler declares a `get` accessor of an [auto-implemented property](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/auto-implemented-properties.md) as `readonly`, regardless of presence of the `readonly` modifier in a property declaration.

  In C# 9.0 and later, you may apply the `readonly` modifier to a property or indexer with an `init` accessor:

  :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="ReadonlyWithInit":::

You can't apply the `readonly` modifier to static members of a structure type.

The compiler may make use of the `readonly` modifier for performance optimizations. For more information, see [Write safe and efficient C# code](../../write-safe-efficient-code.md).

## Nondestructive mutation

Beginning with C# 10, you can use the [`with` expression](../operators/with-expression.md) to produce a copy of a structure-type instance with the specified properties and fields modified. You use [object initializer](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/object-and-collection-initializers.md) syntax to specify what members to modify and their new values, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="WithExpression":::

## Limitations with the design of a structure type

When you design a structure type, you have the same capabilities as with a [class](../keywords/class.md) type, with the following exceptions:

- You can't declare a parameterless constructor. Every structure type already provides an implicit parameterless constructor that produces the [default value](default-values.md) of the type.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Beginning with C# 10, you can declare a parameterless constructor in a structure type. For more information, see the [Parameterless constructors and field initializers](#parameterless-constructors-and-field-initializers) section.

- You can't initialize an instance field or property at its declaration. However, you can initialize a [static](../keywords/static.md) or [const](../keywords/const.md) field or a static property at its declaration.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Beginning with C# 10, you can initialize an instance field or property at its declaration. For more information, see the [Parameterless constructors and field initializers](#parameterless-constructors-and-field-initializers) section.

- A constructor of a structure type must initialize all instance fields of the type.

- A structure type can't inherit from other class or structure type and it can't be the base of a class. However, a structure type can implement [interfaces](../keywords/interface.md).

- You can't declare a [finalizer](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/finalizers.md) within a structure type.

## Parameterless constructors and field initializers

Beginning with C# 10, you can declare a parameterless instance constructor in a structure type, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="ParameterlessConstructor":::

As the preceding example shows, the [default value expression](../operators/default.md) ignores a parameterless constructor and produces the default value of a structure type, which is the value produced by setting all value-type fields to their [default values](default-values.md) (the 0-bit pattern) and all reference-type fields to `null`. Structure-type array instantiation also ignores a parameterless constructor and produces an array populated with the default values of a structure type.

Beginning with C# 10, you can also initialize an instance field or property at its declaration, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="FieldInitializer":::

If you don't declare a parameterless constructor explicitly, a structure type provides a parameterless constructor whose behavior is as follows:

- If a structure type has explicit instance constructors or has no field initializers, an implicit parameterless constructor produces the default value of a structure type, regardless of field initializers, as the preceding example shows.
- If a structure type has no explicit instance constructors and has field initializers, the compiler synthesizes a public parameterless constructor that performs the specified field initializations, as the following example shows:

  :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/StructType.cs" id="FieldInitializerNoConstructor":::

As the preceding example shows, the default value expression and array instantiation ignore field initializers.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When a `struct` includes field initializers, but doesn't include any explicit instance constructors, the synthesized public parameterless constructor performs the specified field initializers. If that `struct` includes an explicit instance constructor, the synthesized parameterless constructor produces the same value as the `default` expression.

For more information, see the [Parameterless struct constructors](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-10.0/parameterless-struct-constructors.md) feature proposal note.

## Instantiation of a structure type

In C#, you must initialize a declared variable before it can be used. Because a structure-type variable can't be `null` (unless it's a variable of a [nullable value type](nullable-value-types.md)), you must instantiate an instance of the corresponding type. There are several ways to do that.

Typically, you instantiate a structure type by calling an appropriate constructor with the [`new`](../operators/new-operator.md) operator. Every structure type has at least one constructor. That's an implicit parameterless constructor, which produces the [default value](default-values.md) of the type. You can also use a [default value expression](../operators/default.md) to produce the default value of a type.

If all instance fields of a structure type are accessible, you can also instantiate it without the `new` operator. In that case you must initialize all instance fields before the first use of the instance. The following example shows how to do that:

[!code-csharp[without new](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#WithoutNew)]

In the case of the [built-in value types](value-types.md#built-in-value-types), use the corresponding literals to specify a value of the type.

## Passing structure-type variables by reference

When you pass a structure-type variable to a method as an argument or return a structure-type value from a method, the whole instance of a structure type is copied. That can affect the performance of your code in high-performance scenarios that involve large structure types. You can avoid value copying by passing a structure-type variable by reference. Use the [`ref`](../keywords/ref.md#passing-an-argument-by-reference), [`out`](../keywords/out-parameter-modifier.md), or [`in`](../keywords/in-parameter-modifier.md) method parameter modifiers to indicate that an argument must be passed by reference. Use [ref returns](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/ref-returns.md) to return a method result by reference. For more information, see [Write safe and efficient C# code](../../write-safe-efficient-code.md).

## `ref` struct

Beginning with C# 7.2, you can use the `ref` modifier in the declaration of a structure type. Instances of a `ref` struct type are allocated on the stack and can't escape to the managed heap. To ensure that, the compiler limits the usage of `ref` struct types as follows:

- A `ref` struct can't be the element type of an array.
- A `ref` struct can't be a declared type of a field of a class or a non-`ref` struct.
- A `ref` struct can't implement interfaces.
- A `ref` struct can't be boxed to <xref:System.ValueType?displayProperty=nameWithType> or <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
- A `ref` struct can't be a type argument.
- A `ref` struct variable can't be captured by a [lambda expression](../operators/lambda-expressions.md) or a [local function](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/local-functions.md).
- A `ref` struct variable can't be used in an [`async`](../keywords/async.md) method. However, you can use `ref` struct variables in synchronous methods, for example, in those that return <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> or <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task%601>.
- A `ref` struct variable can't be used in [iterators](../../iterators.md).

Beginning with C# 8.0, you can define a disposable `ref` struct. To do that, ensure that a `ref` struct fits the [disposable pattern](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/using.md#pattern-based-using). That is, it has an instance or extension `Dispose` method, which is accessible, parameterless and has a `void` return type.

Typically, you define a `ref` struct type when you need a type that also includes data members of `ref` struct types:

[!code-csharp[ref struct](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#RefStruct)]

To declare a `ref` struct as [`readonly`](#readonly-struct), combine the `readonly` and `ref` modifiers in the type declaration (the `readonly` modifier must come before the `ref` modifier):

[!code-csharp[readonly ref struct](snippets/shared/StructType.cs#ReadonlyRef)]

In .NET, examples of a `ref` struct are <xref:System.Span%601?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.ReadOnlySpan%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## struct constraint

You also use the `struct` keyword in the [`struct` constraint](../../programming-guide/generics/constraints-on-type-parameters.md) to specify that a type parameter is a non-nullable value type. Both structure and [enumeration](enum.md) types satisfy the `struct` constraint.

## Conversions

For any structure type (except [`ref` struct](#ref-struct) types), there exist [boxing and unboxing](../../programming-guide/types/boxing-and-unboxing.md) conversions to and from the <xref:System.ValueType?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=nameWithType> types. There exist also boxing and unboxing conversions between a structure type and any interface that it implements.

## C# language specification

For more information, see the [Structs](~/_csharplang/spec/structs.md) section of the [C# language specification](~/_csharplang/spec/introduction.md).

For more information about features introduced in C# 7.2 and later, see the following feature proposal notes:

- [Readonly structs](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.2/readonly-ref.md#readonly-structs)
- [Readonly instance members](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/readonly-instance-members.md)
- [Compile-time safety for ref-like types](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.2/span-safety.md)
- [Parameterless struct constructors](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-10.0/parameterless-struct-constructors.md)
- [Allow `with` expression on structs](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-10.0/record-structs.md#allow-with-expression-on-structs)

## See also

- [C# reference](../index.md)
- [Design guidelines - Choosing between class and struct](../../../standard/design-guidelines/choosing-between-class-and-struct.md)
- [Design guidelines - Struct design](../../../standard/design-guidelines/struct.md)
- [The C# type system](../../fundamentals/types/index.md)
