docs/csharp/language-reference/compiler-messages/feature-version-errors.md, before:

---
title: Resolve errors related to language version and features
description: Several compiler errors indicate that your configured language version doesn't support a feature you're using. This article shows how to fix those errors and warnings.
f1_keywords:
  - "CS0171"
  - "CS0188"
  - "CS0843"
  - "CS8904" # ERR_UnexpectedVarianceStaticMember  Invalid variance: The type parameter '{1}' must be {3} valid on '{0}' unless language version '{4}' or greater is used. '{1}' is {2}.
  - "CS1738" # ERR_NamedArgumentSpecificationBeforeFixedArgument  Named argument specifications must appear after all fixed arguments have been specified. Please use language version {0} or greater to allow non-trailing named arguments
  - "CS8022" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion1  Feature is not available in C# 1. Please use language version.
  - "CS8023" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion2  Feature is not available in C# 2. Please use language version.
  - "CS8024" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion3  Feature is not available in C# 3. Please use language version.
  - "CS8025" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion4  Feature is not available in C# 4. Please use language version.
  - "CS8026" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion5  Feature is not available in C# 5. Please use language version.
  - "CS8059" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion6  Feature is not available in C# 6. Please use language version.
  - "CS8107" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7  Feature is not available in C# 7. Please use language version.
  - "CS8302" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7_1  Feature is not available in C# 7.1. Please use language version.
  - "CS8320" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7_2  Feature is not available in C# 7.2. Please use language version.
  - "CS8370" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7_3  Feature is not available in C# 7.3. Please use language version.
  - "CS8400" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion8  Feature is not available in C# 8. Please use language version.
  - "CS8773" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion9  Feature is not available in C# 9. Please use language version.
  - "CS8936" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion10  Feature is not available in C# 10. Please use language version.
  - "CS9058" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion11  Feature is not available in C# 11. Please use language version.
  - "CS8303" # ERR_LanguageVersionCannotHaveLeadingZeroes  Specified language version cannot have leading zeroes
  - "CS8304" # ERR_CompilerAndLanguageVersion  Compiler version is lower than Language version
  - "CS8306" # ERR_TupleInferredNamesNotAvailable Tuple element name '{0}' is inferred. Please use language version {1} or greater to access an element by its inferred name.
  - "CS8371" # WRN_AttributesOnBackingFieldsNotAvailable  Field-targeted attributes on auto-properties are not supported in language version
  - "CS8401" # ERR_AltInterpolatedVerbatimStringsNotAvailable  To use '@$' instead of '$@' for an interpolated verbatim string, please use language version '{0}' or greater.
  - "CS8511" # ERR_ConstantPatternVsOpenType  An expression of type '{0}' cannot be handled by a pattern of type '{1}'
  - "CS8192" # ERR_BadLanguageVersion   Provided language version is unsupported or invalid
  - "CS8627" # ERR_NullableUnconstrainedTypeParameter  A nullable type parameter must be known to be a value type or non-nullable reference type
  - "CS8630" # ERR_NullableOptionNotAvailable  Invalid '{0}' value: '{1}' for C# {2}. Please use language version '{3}' or greater
  - "CS8314" # ERR_PatternWrongGenericTypeInVersion  An expression of type '{0}' cannot be handled by a pattern of type
  - "CS8652" # ERR_FeatureInPreview  The feature '{0}' is currently in Preview and *unsupported*. To use Preview features, use the 'preview' language version
  - "CS8703" # ERR_InvalidModifierForLanguageVersion  The modifier '{0}' is not valid for this item in C# {1}. Please use language version '{2}' or greater.
  - "CS8704" # ERR_ImplicitImplementationOfNonPublicInterfaceMember  Type does not implement interface member. Type cannot implicitly implement a non-public member in selected version.
  - "CS8706" # ERR_LanguageVersionDoesNotSupportInterfaceImplementationForMember  Type cannot implement interface member '{1}' in type '{2}' because feature '{3}' is not available in 
  - "CS8957" # ERR_NoImplicitConvTargetTypedConditional  Conditional expression is not valid in language version {0} because a common type was not found between '{1}' and '{2}'
  - "CS8912" # ERR_InheritingFromRecordWithSealedToString  Inheriting from a record with a sealed 'Object.ToString' is not supported
  - "CS9014" # ERR_UseDefViolationPropertyUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned property
  - "CS9015" # ERR_UseDefViolationFieldUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned field
  - "CS9016" # WRN_UseDefViolationPropertyUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned property
  - "CS9017" # WRN_UseDefViolationFieldUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned field
  - "CS8967" # ERR_NewlinesAreNotAllowedInsideANonVerbatimInterpolatedString  Newlines inside a non-verbatim interpolated string are not supported in C#
  - "CS9064"
  - "CS9171"
  - "CS8058"
  - "CS8305"
  - "CS9204"
  - "CS9194"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CS0171"
  - "CS0188"
  - "CS0843"
  - "CS8904"
  - "CS1738"
  - "CS8022"
  - "CS8023"
  - "CS8024"
  - "CS8025"
  - "CS8026"
  - "CS8059"
  - "CS8107"
  - "CS8302"
  - "CS8320"
  - "CS8370"
  - "CS8400"
  - "CS8773"
  - "CS8936"
  - "CS9058"
  - "CS8303"
  - "CS8304"
  - "CS8306"
  - "CS8371"
  - "CS8401"
  - "CS8511"
  - "CS8192"
  - "CS8627"
  - "CS8630"
  - "CS8314"
  - "CS8652"
  - "CS8703"
  - "CS8704"
  - "CS8706"
  - "CS8957"
  - "CS8912"
  - "CS9014"
  - "CS9015"
  - "CS9016"
  - "CS9017"
  - "CS8967"
  - "CS9064"
  - "CS9171"
  - "CS8058"
  - "CS8305"
  - "CS9204"
  - "CS9194"
ms.date: 10/26/2023
---
# Resolve warnings related to language features and versions

This article covers the following compiler warnings:

<!-- The text in this list generates issues for Acrolinx, because they don't use contractions.
That's be design. The text closely matches the text of the compiler error / warning for SEO purposes.
 -->
- **CS8022, CS8023, CS8024, CS8025, CS8026, CS8059, CS8107, CS8302, CS8320, CS8370, CS8400, CS8773, CS8936, CS9058** - *Feature is not available. Use newer language version.*
- **CS8058** - *Feature is experimental.*
- **CS8192** - *Provided language version is unsupported or invalid*
- **CS8303** - *Specified language version cannot have leading zeroes*
- **CS8304** - *Compiler version is less than language version*
- **CS1738** - *Named argument specifications must appear after all fixed arguments have been specified.*
- **CS8306** - *Tuple element name is inferred.*
- **CS8314** - *An expression of type cannot be handled by a pattern of type*
- **CS8371** - *Field-targeted attributes on auto-properties are not supported in language version*
- **CS8401** - *To use `@$` instead of `$@` for an interpolated verbatim string, use newer language version.*
- **CS8511** - *An expression of type cannot be handled by a pattern of type.*
- **CS8627** - *A nullable type parameter must be known to be a value type or non-nullable reference type*
- **CS8630** - *Invalid nullable options. Use newer language version*
- **CS8652** - *The modifier is not valid for this item.*
- **CS8704** - *Type does not implement interface member. It cannot implicitly implement a non-public member.*
- **CS8706** - *Type cannot implement interface member because a feature is not available in this version.*
- **CS8904** - *Invalid variance: The type parameter must be valid.*
- **CS8912** - *Inheriting from a record with a sealed 'Object.ToString' is not supported.*
- **CS8957** - *Conditional expression is not valid in language version because a common type was not found between types.*
- **CS8967** - *Newlines inside a non-verbatim interpolated string are not supported in C#*
- **CS9014** - *Error: Use of possibly unassigned property. Upgrade to auto-default the property.*
- **CS9015** - *Error: Use of possibly unassigned field. Upgrade to auto-default the field.*
- **CS9016** - *Warning: Use of possibly unassigned property. Upgrade to auto-default the property.*
- **CS9017** - *Warning: Use of possibly unassigned field. Upgrade to auto-default the field.*
- **CS9064** - *Target runtime doesn't support ref fields.*
- **CS9171** - *Target runtime doesn't support inline array types.*
- **CS9194** - *Argument may not be passed with the `ref` keyword. To pass `ref` arguments to `in` parameters, upgrade to language version 12 or greater.*

In addition, the following errors and warnings relate to struct initialization changes in recent versions:

- [**CS0171**, **CS8881**](#breaking-changes-on-struct-initialization): *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller.*
- [**CS0188**, **CS8885**](#breaking-changes-on-struct-initialization): *The 'this' object cannot be used before all of its fields are assigned to*
- [**CS0843**, **CS8880**](#breaking-changes-on-struct-initialization): *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller*
- [**CS8305**](#enable-experimental-features) - *Feature is for evaluation purposes only and is subject to change or removal in future updates.*
- [**CS9204**](#enable-experimental-features) - *Type is for evaluation purposes only and is subject to change or removal in future updates. Suppress this diagnostic to proceed.*

The cause behind all these errors and warnings is that the compiler installed supports a newer version of C# than the version your project has selected. The C# compiler can conform to any previous version. You can validate syntax against an earlier version of C#, or because your project must support older libraries or runtimes.

There are two possible causes and three ways to address these errors and warnings.

## Update your target framework

The compiler determines a default based on these rules:

[!INCLUDE [langversion-table](../includes/default-langversion-table.md)]

If your selected framework doesn't match the language version required, you can upgrade the target framework.

## Select the matching language version

You might have an older target framework selected in your project file. If you remove the `LangVersion` element from your project file, the compiler uses the default value listed in the preceding section. The following table shows all current C# language versions. You can also specify a specific language version to enable newer features.

[!INCLUDE [langversion-table](../includes/langversion-table.md)]

You can learn more about the language versions supported for each framework version in the article on [Configure language version](../configure-language-version.md) in the language reference section.

## Avoid the updated feature

If you must support older libraries or runtimes, you might need to avoid using newer features.

## Enable experimental features

The diagnostics for experimental features can be disabled to use the experimental feature.

> [!WARNING]
> Experimental features are subject to changes. The APIs may change, or they may be removed in future updates. Including experimental features is a way for library authors to get feedback on ideas and concepts for future development. Use extreme caution when using any feature marked as experimental.

## Breaking changes on struct initialization

All these errors and warnings help ensure that `struct` types are properly initialized before their fields are accessed. In earlier versions of C#, you must explicitly assign all fields in a struct in any constructor. The parameterless constructor initializes all fields to their default value. In later versions, all constructors initialize all fields. Either the field is explicitly set, set in a field initializer, or set to its default value.

- **CS0171**, **CS8881**: *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller.*
- **CS0188**, **CS8885**: *The 'this' object cannot be used before all of its fields are assigned to*
- **CS0843**, **CS8880**: *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller*

You can address this error by upgrading your language version to C# 11, when all fields are initialized by every `struct` constructor. If that's not a possible option, you must explicitly call the default constructor, as shown in the following example:

```csharp
struct S
{
    public int AIProp { get; set; }
    public S(int i){} //CS0843
    // Try the following lines instead.
    // public S(int i) : this()
    // {
    //     AIProp = i;
    // }
}

class Test
{
    static int Main()
    {
        return 1;
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Add latest errors codes
Several diagnostics have been added for the C# 12 features since their initial release.

Add them.

Fixes #37737

docs/csharp/language-reference/compiler-messages/feature-version-errors.md, after:

---
title: Resolve errors related to language version and features
description: Several compiler errors indicate that your configured language version doesn't support a feature you're using. This article shows how to fix those errors and warnings.
f1_keywords:
  - "CS0171"
  - "CS0188"
  - "CS0843"
  - "CS8904" # ERR_UnexpectedVarianceStaticMember  Invalid variance: The type parameter '{1}' must be {3} valid on '{0}' unless language version '{4}' or greater is used. '{1}' is {2}.
  - "CS1738" # ERR_NamedArgumentSpecificationBeforeFixedArgument  Named argument specifications must appear after all fixed arguments have been specified. Please use language version {0} or greater to allow non-trailing named arguments
  - "CS8022" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion1  Feature is not available in C# 1. Please use language version.
  - "CS8023" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion2  Feature is not available in C# 2. Please use language version.
  - "CS8024" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion3  Feature is not available in C# 3. Please use language version.
  - "CS8025" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion4  Feature is not available in C# 4. Please use language version.
  - "CS8026" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion5  Feature is not available in C# 5. Please use language version.
  - "CS8059" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion6  Feature is not available in C# 6. Please use language version.
  - "CS8107" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7  Feature is not available in C# 7. Please use language version.
  - "CS8302" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7_1  Feature is not available in C# 7.1. Please use language version.
  - "CS8320" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7_2  Feature is not available in C# 7.2. Please use language version.
  - "CS8370" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion7_3  Feature is not available in C# 7.3. Please use language version.
  - "CS8400" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion8  Feature is not available in C# 8. Please use language version.
  - "CS8773" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion9  Feature is not available in C# 9. Please use language version.
  - "CS8936" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion10  Feature is not available in C# 10. Please use language version.
  - "CS9058" # ERR_FeatureNotAvailableInVersion11  Feature is not available in C# 11. Please use language version.
  - "CS8303" # ERR_LanguageVersionCannotHaveLeadingZeroes  Specified language version cannot have leading zeroes
  - "CS8304" # ERR_CompilerAndLanguageVersion  Compiler version is lower than Language version
  - "CS8306" # ERR_TupleInferredNamesNotAvailable Tuple element name '{0}' is inferred. Please use language version {1} or greater to access an element by its inferred name.
  - "CS8371" # WRN_AttributesOnBackingFieldsNotAvailable  Field-targeted attributes on auto-properties are not supported in language version
  - "CS8401" # ERR_AltInterpolatedVerbatimStringsNotAvailable  To use '@$' instead of '$@' for an interpolated verbatim string, please use language version '{0}' or greater.
  - "CS8511" # ERR_ConstantPatternVsOpenType  An expression of type '{0}' cannot be handled by a pattern of type '{1}'
  - "CS8192" # ERR_BadLanguageVersion   Provided language version is unsupported or invalid
  - "CS8627" # ERR_NullableUnconstrainedTypeParameter  A nullable type parameter must be known to be a value type or non-nullable reference type
  - "CS8630" # ERR_NullableOptionNotAvailable  Invalid '{0}' value: '{1}' for C# {2}. Please use language version '{3}' or greater
  - "CS8314" # ERR_PatternWrongGenericTypeInVersion  An expression of type '{0}' cannot be handled by a pattern of type
  - "CS8652" # ERR_FeatureInPreview  The feature '{0}' is currently in Preview and *unsupported*. To use Preview features, use the 'preview' language version
  - "CS8703" # ERR_InvalidModifierForLanguageVersion  The modifier '{0}' is not valid for this item in C# {1}. Please use language version '{2}' or greater.
  - "CS8704" # ERR_ImplicitImplementationOfNonPublicInterfaceMember  Type does not implement interface member. Type cannot implicitly implement a non-public member in selected version.
  - "CS8706" # ERR_LanguageVersionDoesNotSupportInterfaceImplementationForMember  Type cannot implement interface member '{1}' in type '{2}' because feature '{3}' is not available in 
  - "CS8957" # ERR_NoImplicitConvTargetTypedConditional  Conditional expression is not valid in language version {0} because a common type was not found between '{1}' and '{2}'
  - "CS8912" # ERR_InheritingFromRecordWithSealedToString  Inheriting from a record with a sealed 'Object.ToString' is not supported
  - "CS9014" # ERR_UseDefViolationPropertyUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned property
  - "CS9015" # ERR_UseDefViolationFieldUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned field
  - "CS9016" # WRN_UseDefViolationPropertyUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned property
  - "CS9017" # WRN_UseDefViolationFieldUnsupportedVersion  Use of possibly unassigned field
  - "CS8967" # ERR_NewlinesAreNotAllowedInsideANonVerbatimInterpolatedString  Newlines inside a non-verbatim interpolated string are not supported in C#
  - "CS9064"
  - "CS9103"
  - "CS9171"
  - "CS8058"
  - "CS8305"
  - "CS9204"
  - "CS9194"
  - "CS9202"
  - "CS9211"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CS0171"
  - "CS0188"
  - "CS0843"
  - "CS8904"
  - "CS1738"
  - "CS8022"
  - "CS8023"
  - "CS8024"
  - "CS8025"
  - "CS8026"
  - "CS8059"
  - "CS8107"
  - "CS8302"
  - "CS8320"
  - "CS8370"
  - "CS8400"
  - "CS8773"
  - "CS8936"
  - "CS9058"
  - "CS8303"
  - "CS8304"
  - "CS8306"
  - "CS8371"
  - "CS8401"
  - "CS8511"
  - "CS8192"
  - "CS8627"
  - "CS8630"
  - "CS8314"
  - "CS8652"
  - "CS8703"
  - "CS8704"
  - "CS8706"
  - "CS8957"
  - "CS8912"
  - "CS9014"
  - "CS9015"
  - "CS9016"
  - "CS9017"
  - "CS8967"
  - "CS9064"
  - "CS9103"
  - "CS9171"
  - "CS8058"
  - "CS8305"
  - "CS9204"
  - "CS9194"
  - "CS9202"
  - "CS9211"
ms.date: 11/01/2023
---
# Resolve warnings related to language features and versions

This article covers the following compiler warnings:

<!-- The text in this list generates issues for Acrolinx, because they don't use contractions.
That's be design. The text closely matches the text of the compiler error / warning for SEO purposes.
 -->
- **CS8022, CS8023, CS8024, CS8025, CS8026, CS8059, CS8107, CS8302, CS8320, CS8370, CS8400, CS8773, CS8936, CS9058** - *Feature is not available. Use newer language version.*
- **CS8058** - *Feature is experimental.*
- **CS8192** - *Provided language version is unsupported or invalid*
- **CS8303** - *Specified language version cannot have leading zeroes*
- **CS8304** - *Compiler version is less than language version*
- **CS1738** - *Named argument specifications must appear after all fixed arguments have been specified.*
- **CS8306** - *Tuple element name is inferred.*
- **CS8314** - *An expression of type cannot be handled by a pattern of type*
- **CS8371** - *Field-targeted attributes on auto-properties are not supported in language version*
- **CS8401** - *To use `@$` instead of `$@` for an interpolated verbatim string, use newer language version.*
- **CS8511** - *An expression of type cannot be handled by a pattern of type.*
- **CS8627** - *A nullable type parameter must be known to be a value type or non-nullable reference type*
- **CS8630** - *Invalid nullable options. Use newer language version*
- **CS8652** - *The modifier is not valid for this item.*
- **CS8704** - *Type does not implement interface member. It cannot implicitly implement a non-public member.*
- **CS8706** - *Type cannot implement interface member because a feature is not available in this version.*
- **CS8904** - *Invalid variance: The type parameter must be valid.*
- **CS8912** - *Inheriting from a record with a sealed 'Object.ToString' is not supported.*
- **CS8957** - *Conditional expression is not valid in language version because a common type was not found between types.*
- **CS8967** - *Newlines inside a non-verbatim interpolated string are not supported in C#*
- **CS9014** - *Error: Use of possibly unassigned property. Upgrade to auto-default the property.*
- **CS9015** - *Error: Use of possibly unassigned field. Upgrade to auto-default the field.*
- **CS9016** - *Warning: Use of possibly unassigned property. Upgrade to auto-default the property.*
- **CS9017** - *Warning: Use of possibly unassigned field. Upgrade to auto-default the field.*
- **CS9064** - *Target runtime doesn't support ref fields.*
- **CS9103** - *Definition in a module with an unrecognized RefSafetyRulesAttribute version, expecting '11'.*
- **CS9171** - *Target runtime doesn't support inline array types.*
- **CS9194** - *Argument may not be passed with the `ref` keyword. To pass `ref` arguments to `in` parameters, upgrade to language version 12 or greater.*
- **CS9202** - *Feature is not available in C# 12.0. Please use newer language version*
- **CS9211** - *The diagnosticId argument to the 'Experimental' attribute must be a valid identifier.*

In addition, the following errors and warnings relate to struct initialization changes in recent versions:

- [**CS0171**, **CS8881**](#breaking-changes-on-struct-initialization): *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller.*
- [**CS0188**, **CS8885**](#breaking-changes-on-struct-initialization): *The 'this' object cannot be used before all of its fields are assigned to*
- [**CS0843**, **CS8880**](#breaking-changes-on-struct-initialization): *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller*
- [**CS8305**](#enable-experimental-features) - *Feature is for evaluation purposes only and is subject to change or removal in future updates.*
- [**CS9204**](#enable-experimental-features) - *Type is for evaluation purposes only and is subject to change or removal in future updates. Suppress this diagnostic to proceed.*

The cause behind all these errors and warnings is that the compiler installed supports a newer version of C# than the version your project has selected. The C# compiler can conform to any previous version. You can validate syntax against an earlier version of C#, or because your project must support older libraries or runtimes.

There are two possible causes and three ways to address these errors and warnings.

## Update your target framework

The compiler determines a default based on these rules:

[!INCLUDE [langversion-table](../includes/default-langversion-table.md)]

If your selected framework doesn't match the language version required, you can upgrade the target framework.

## Select the matching language version

You might have an older target framework selected in your project file. If you remove the `LangVersion` element from your project file, the compiler uses the default value listed in the preceding section. The following table shows all current C# language versions. You can also specify a specific language version to enable newer features.

[!INCLUDE [langversion-table](../includes/langversion-table.md)]

You can learn more about the language versions supported for each framework version in the article on [Configure language version](../configure-language-version.md) in the language reference section.

## Avoid the updated feature

If you must support older libraries or runtimes, you might need to avoid using newer features.

## Enable experimental features

The diagnostics for experimental features can be disabled to use the experimental feature.

> [!WARNING]
> Experimental features are subject to changes. The APIs may change, or they may be removed in future updates. Including experimental features is a way for library authors to get feedback on ideas and concepts for future development. Use extreme caution when using any feature marked as experimental.

You can also declare your own experimental features using the <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.ExperimentalAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>. The compiler emits *CS9211* if the identifier used for the experimental feature is not a valid identifier.

## Breaking changes on struct initialization

All these errors and warnings help ensure that `struct` types are properly initialized before their fields are accessed. In earlier versions of C#, you must explicitly assign all fields in a struct in any constructor. The parameterless constructor initializes all fields to their default value. In later versions, all constructors initialize all fields. Either the field is explicitly set, set in a field initializer, or set to its default value.

- **CS0171**, **CS8881**: *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller.*
- **CS0188**, **CS8885**: *The 'this' object cannot be used before all of its fields are assigned to*
- **CS0843**, **CS8880**: *Backing field for automatically implemented property 'name' must be fully assigned before control is returned to the caller*

You can address this error by upgrading your language version to C# 11, when all fields are initialized by every `struct` constructor. If that's not a possible option, you must explicitly call the default constructor, as shown in the following example:

```csharp
struct S
{
    public int AIProp { get; set; }
    public S(int i){} //CS0843
    // Try the following lines instead.
    // public S(int i) : this()
    // {
    //     AIProp = i;
    // }
}

class Test
{
    static int Main()
    {
        return 1;
    }
}
```
