docs/ai/quickstarts/text-to-image.md, before:

---
title: Quickstart - Generate images from text using AI
description: Learn how to use Microsoft.Extensions.AI to generate images from text prompts using AI models in a .NET application.
ms.date: 10/21/2025
ms.topic: quickstart
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Generate images from text using AI

In this quickstart, you learn how to use the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI> (MEAI) library to generate images from text prompts using AI models. The MEAI text-to-image capabilities are designed to empower you to generate images from natural language prompts or existing images using a consistent and extensible API surface.

The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IImageGenerator> interface provides a unified, extensible API for working with various image generation services, making it easy to integrate text-to-image capabilities into your .NET apps. The interface supports:

- Text-to-image generation.
- Pipeline composition with middleware (logging, telemetry, caching).
- Flexible configuration options.
- Support for multiple AI providers.

> [!NOTE]
> The `IImageGenerator` interface is currently marked as experimental with the `MEAI001` diagnostic ID. You might need to suppress this warning in your project file or code.

<!--Prereqs-->
[!INCLUDE [azure-openai-prereqs](../quickstarts/includes/prerequisites-azure-openai.md)]

## Configure the AI service

To provision an Azure OpenAI service and model using the Azure portal, complete the steps in the [Create and deploy an Azure OpenAI Service resource](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/create-resource?pivots=web-portal) article. In the "Deploy a model" step, select the `gpt-image-1` model.

## Create the application

Complete the following steps to create a .NET console application that generates images from text prompts.

1. Create a new console application:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet new console -o TextToImageAI
    ```

1. Navigate to the `TextToImageAI` directory, and add the necessary packages to your app:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Azure.AI.OpenAI
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.AI.OpenAI --prerelease
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.UserSecrets
    ```

1. Run the following commands to add [app secrets](/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets) for your Azure OpenAI endpoint, model name, and API key:

    ```bash
    dotnet user-secrets init
    dotnet user-secrets set AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT <your-Azure-OpenAI-endpoint>
    dotnet user-secrets set AZURE_OPENAI_GPT_NAME gpt-image-1
    dotnet user-secrets set AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY <your-azure-openai-api-key>
    ```

1. Open the new app in your editor of choice (for example, Visual Studio).

## Implement basic image generation

1. Update the `Program.cs` file with the following code to get the configuration data and create the <xref:Azure.AI.OpenAI.AzureOpenAIClient>:

   :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/text-to-image/azure-openai/Program.cs" id="ConfigClient":::

   The preceding code:

   - Loads configuration from user secrets.
   - Creates an `ImageClient` from the OpenAI SDK.
   - Converts the `ImageClient` to an `IImageGenerator` using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.OpenAIClientExtensions.AsIImageGenerator(OpenAI.Images.ImageClient)> extension method.

1. Add the following code to implement basic text-to-image generation:

   :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/text-to-image/azure-openai/Program.cs" id="GenerateImage":::

   The preceding code:

   - Generates an image using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGeneratorExtensions.GenerateImagesAsync(Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IImageGenerator,System.String,Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions,System.Threading.CancellationToken)> method with a text prompt.
   - Saves the generated image to a file in the local user directory.

1. Run the application, either through the IDE or using `dotnet run`.

   The application generates an image and outputs the file path to the image. Open the file to view the generated image. The following image shows one example of a generated image.

   :::image type="content" source="media/text-to-image/jungle-tennis.png" alt-text="AI-generated image of a tennis court in a jungle.":::

## Configure image generation options

You can customize image generation by providing options such as size, response format, and number of images to generate. The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions> class allows you to specify:

- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.AdditionalProperties>: Provider-specific options.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.Count>: The number of images to generate.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.ImageSize>: The dimensions of the generated image as a <xref:System.Drawing.Size?displayProperty=fullName>. Supported sizes are 1024 x 1024, 1024 x 1536, and 1536 x 1024.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.MediaType>: The media type (MIME type) of the generated image.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.ModelId>: The model ID.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.RawRepresentationFactory>: The callback that creates the raw representation of the image generation options from an underlying implementation.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.ResponseFormat>: Options are <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationResponseFormat.Uri>, <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationResponseFormat.Data>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationResponseFormat.Hosted>.

Update your code to include configuration options:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/text-to-image/azure-openai/Program.cs" id="WithOptions":::

## Handle errors and edge cases

It's important to handle potential errors such as content filtering, rate limiting, or invalid sizes when you generate images. Add error handling to your application:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/text-to-image/azure-openai/Program.cs" id="WithErrorHandling":::

## Best practices

When implementing text-to-image generation in your applications, consider these best practices:

- **Prompt engineering**: Write clear, detailed prompts that describe the desired image. Include specific details about style, composition, colors, and elements.
- **Cost management**: Image generation can be expensive. Cache results when possible and implement rate limiting to control costs.
- **Content safety**: Always review generated images for appropriate content, especially in production applications. Consider implementing content filtering and moderation.
- **User experience**: Image generation can take several seconds. Provide progress indicators and handle timeouts gracefully.
- **Legal considerations**: Be aware of licensing and usage rights for generated images. Review the terms of service for your AI provider.

## Clean up resources

When you no longer need the Azure OpenAI resource, delete it to avoid incurring charges:

1. In the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com), navigate to your Azure OpenAI resource.
1. Select the resource and then select **Delete**.

## Next steps

You've successfully generated some different images using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IImageGenerator> interface in <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI>. Next, you can explore some of the additional functionality, including:

- Refining the generated image iteratively.
- Editing an existing image.
- Personalizing an image, diagram, or theme.
- Merging multiple images into one, such as putting a character into a scene.

## See also

- [Quickstart: Generate images using AI with .NET](../quickstarts/generate-images.md)
- [Explore text-to-image capabilities in .NET (blog post)](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/explore-text-to-image-dotnet/)
- [Microsoft.Extensions.AI library overview](../microsoft-extensions-ai.md)
- [Quickstart: Build an AI chat app with .NET](../quickstarts/build-chat-app.md)

Commit message:

respond to feedback; update links

docs/ai/quickstarts/text-to-image.md, after:

---
title: Quickstart - Generate images from text using AI
description: Learn how to use Microsoft.Extensions.AI to generate images from text prompts using AI models in a .NET application.
ms.date: 10/21/2025
ms.topic: quickstart
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Generate images from text using AI

In this quickstart, you use the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI> (MEAI) library to generate images from text prompts using an AI model. The MEAI text-to-image capabilities let you generate images from natural language prompts or existing images using a consistent and extensible API surface.

The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IImageGenerator> interface provides a unified, extensible API for working with various image generation services, making it easy to integrate text-to-image capabilities into your .NET apps. The interface supports:

- Text-to-image generation.
- Pipeline composition with middleware (logging, telemetry, caching).
- Flexible configuration options.
- Support for multiple AI providers.

> [!NOTE]
> The `IImageGenerator` interface is currently marked as experimental with the `MEAI001` diagnostic ID. You might need to suppress this warning in your project file or code.

<!--Prereqs-->
[!INCLUDE [azure-openai-prereqs](../quickstarts/includes/prerequisites-azure-openai.md)]

## Configure the AI service

To provision an Azure OpenAI service and model using the Azure portal, complete the steps in the [Create and deploy an Azure OpenAI Service resource](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/create-resource?pivots=web-portal) article. In the "Deploy a model" step, select the `gpt-image-1` model.

> [!NOTE]
> `gpt-image-1` is a newer model that offers several improvements over DALL-E 3. It's available from OpenAI on a limited basis; apply for access with [this form](https://aka.ms/oai/gptimage1access).

## Create the application

Complete the following steps to create a .NET console application that generates images from text prompts.

1. Create a new console application:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet new console -o TextToImageAI
    ```

1. Navigate to the `TextToImageAI` directory, and add the necessary packages to your app:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Azure.AI.OpenAI
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.AI.OpenAI --prerelease
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.UserSecrets
    ```

1. Run the following commands to add [app secrets](/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets) for your Azure OpenAI endpoint, model name, and API key:

    ```bash
    dotnet user-secrets init
    dotnet user-secrets set AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT <your-Azure-OpenAI-endpoint>
    dotnet user-secrets set AZURE_OPENAI_GPT_NAME gpt-image-1
    dotnet user-secrets set AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY <your-azure-openai-api-key>
    ```

1. Open the new app in your editor of choice (for example, Visual Studio).

## Implement basic image generation

1. Update the `Program.cs` file with the following code to get the configuration data and create the <xref:Azure.AI.OpenAI.AzureOpenAIClient>:

   :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/text-to-image/azure-openai/Program.cs" id="ConfigClient":::

   The preceding code:

   - Loads configuration from user secrets.
   - Creates an `ImageClient` from the OpenAI SDK.
   - Converts the `ImageClient` to an `IImageGenerator` using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.OpenAIClientExtensions.AsIImageGenerator(OpenAI.Images.ImageClient)> extension method.

1. Add the following code to implement basic text-to-image generation:

   :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/text-to-image/azure-openai/Program.cs" id="GenerateImage":::

   The preceding code:

   - Sets the requested image file type by setting <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.MediaType?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
   - Generates an image using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGeneratorExtensions.GenerateImagesAsync(Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IImageGenerator,System.String,Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions,System.Threading.CancellationToken)> method with a text prompt.
   - Saves the generated image to a file in the local user directory.

1. Run the application, either through the IDE or using `dotnet run`.

   The application generates an image and outputs the file path to the image. Open the file to view the generated image. The following image shows one example of a generated image.

   :::image type="content" source="media/text-to-image/jungle-tennis.png" alt-text="AI-generated image of a tennis court in a jungle.":::

## Configure image generation options

You can customize image generation by providing other options such as size, response format, and number of images to generate. The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions> class allows you to specify:

- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.AdditionalProperties>: Provider-specific options.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.Count>: The number of images to generate.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.ImageSize>: The dimensions of the generated image as a <xref:System.Drawing.Size?displayProperty=fullName>. For supported sizes, see the [OpenAI API reference](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/images/create).
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.MediaType>: The media type (MIME type) of the generated image.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.ModelId>: The model ID.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.RawRepresentationFactory>: The callback that creates the raw representation of the image generation options from an underlying implementation.
- <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationOptions.ResponseFormat>: Options are <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationResponseFormat.Uri>, <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationResponseFormat.Data>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.ImageGenerationResponseFormat.Hosted>.

## Best practices

When implementing text-to-image generation in your applications, consider these best practices:

- **Prompt engineering**: Write clear, detailed prompts that describe the desired image. Include specific details about style, composition, colors, and elements.
- **Cost management**: Image generation can be expensive. Cache results when possible and implement rate limiting to control costs.
- **Content safety**: Always review generated images for appropriate content, especially in production applications. Consider implementing content filtering and moderation.
- **User experience**: Image generation can take several seconds. Provide progress indicators and handle timeouts gracefully.
- **Legal considerations**: Be aware of licensing and usage rights for generated images. Review the terms of service for your AI provider.

## Clean up resources

When you no longer need the Azure OpenAI resource, delete it to avoid incurring charges:

1. In the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com), navigate to your Azure OpenAI resource.
1. Select the resource and then select **Delete**.

## Next steps

You've successfully generated some different images using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IImageGenerator> interface in <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI>. Next, you can explore some of the additional functionality, including:

- Refining the generated image iteratively.
- Editing an existing image.
- Personalizing an image, diagram, or theme.

## See also

- [Explore text-to-image capabilities in .NET (blog post)](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/explore-text-to-image-dotnet/)
- [Microsoft.Extensions.AI library overview](../microsoft-extensions-ai.md)
- [Quickstart: Build an AI chat app with .NET](../quickstarts/build-chat-app.md)
