docs/framework/winforms/controls/how-to-resize-controls-on-windows-forms.md, before:

---
title: "How to: Resize Controls on Windows Forms"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
f1_keywords: 
  - "Size.Height"
  - "Size.Width"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "controls [Windows Forms], resizing"
  - "size [Windows Forms], controls"
  - "Windows Forms controls, size"
ms.assetid: d2dba441-a8c0-4705-b8e8-2e5d86d6e7ec
---
# How to: Resize Controls on Windows Forms
You can resize individual controls, and you can resize multiple controls of the same or different kind, such as <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Button> and <xref:System.Windows.Forms.GroupBox> controls.  
  
### To resize a control  
  
1. Click the control to be resized and drag one of the eight sizing handles.  
  
    > [!NOTE]
    >  Select the control and press the ARROW keys while holding down the SHIFT key to resize the control one pixel at a time. Press the DOWN or RIGHT arrow keys while holding down the SHIFT and CTRL keys to resize the control in large increments.  
  
### To resize multiple controls on a form  
  
1. Hold down the CTRL or SHIFT key and select the controls you want to resize. The size of the first control you select is used for the other controls.  
  
2. On the **Format** menu, choose **Make Same Size**, and select one of the four options. The first three commands change the dimensions of the controls to match the first-selected control.  
  
## See also

- [Windows Forms Controls](index.md)
- [Arranging Controls on Windows Forms](arranging-controls-on-windows-forms.md)
- [Labeling Individual Windows Forms Controls and Providing Shortcuts to Them](labeling-individual-windows-forms-controls-and-providing-shortcuts-to-them.md)
- [Controls to Use on Windows Forms](controls-to-use-on-windows-forms.md)
- [Windows Forms Controls by Function](windows-forms-controls-by-function.md)
- [How to: Resize Windows Forms Using the Designer](https://docs.microsoft.com/previous-versions/visualstudio/visual-studio-2010/37k2zkwx(v=vs.100))

Commit message:

take ownership of arranging controls topics

docs/framework/winforms/controls/how-to-resize-controls-on-windows-forms.md, after:

---
title: "How to: Resize Controls on Windows Forms"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
f1_keywords:
  - "Size.Height"
  - "Size.Width"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "controls [Windows Forms], resizing"
  - "size [Windows Forms], controls"
  - "Windows Forms controls, size"
ms.assetid: d2dba441-a8c0-4705-b8e8-2e5d86d6e7ec
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
manager: jillfra
---
# How to: Resize controls on Windows Forms

You can resize individual controls, and you can resize multiple controls of the same or different kind, such as <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Button> and <xref:System.Windows.Forms.GroupBox> controls.

## To resize a control

In Visual Studio, select the control to be resized and drag one of the eight sizing handles.

> [!NOTE]
> Select the control and press the **arrow** keys while holding down the **Shift** key to resize the control one pixel at a time. Press the **down arrow** or **right arrow** keys while holding down the **Shift** and **Ctrl** keys to resize the control in large increments.

## To resize multiple controls on a form

1. In Visual Studio, hold down the **Ctrl** or **Shift** key and select the controls you want to resize. The size of the first control you select is used for the other controls.

2. On the **Format** menu, choose **Make Same Size**, and select one of the four options. The first three commands change the dimensions of the controls to match the first-selected control.

## See also

- [Windows Forms Controls](index.md)
- [Labeling Individual Windows Forms Controls and Providing Shortcuts to Them](labeling-individual-windows-forms-controls-and-providing-shortcuts-to-them.md)
- [Controls to Use on Windows Forms](controls-to-use-on-windows-forms.md)
- [Windows Forms Controls by Function](windows-forms-controls-by-function.md)
- [How to: Resize Windows Forms Using the Designer](https://docs.microsoft.com/previous-versions/visualstudio/visual-studio-2010/37k2zkwx(v=vs.100))
