# Known Issues for the .NET Core CLI Tools

This document contains the known issues and suggested workarounds for 
the Command Line Interface (CLI) tools in the .NET Core SDK Preview 1 release.

A known issue is a major issue that block users in doing their everyday tasks and that affect all or 
most of the commands in the CLI tools. If you want to report an issue, you can submit one at the [CLI repo Issues](https://github.com/dotnet/cli/issues) page. 

## OpenSSL dependency on OS X

OS X "El Capitan" (10.11) comes with version 0.9.8 of OpenSSL. .NET Core depends on an OpenSSL version equal or larger than 1.0.1. You can update the OpenSSL version by using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh), [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) or manually. The important bit is that you need to have the required OpenSSL version on the path when you work with .NET Core. 

**Workaround**

With Homebrew, you can run the following commands to get this done: 

```console
brew update
brew install openssl
brew link --force openssl
```

MacPorts doesn't have the concept of linking, so it is recommended that you uninstall 0.9.8 version of OpenSSL using the following command:

```console
sudo port upgrade openssl
sudo port -f uninstall openssl @0.9.8
```

You can verify whether you have the right version using the `openssl version` command from the Terminal. 

## Users of zsh (z shell) don't get dotnet on the path after install
There is a known issue in the `oh-my-zsh` installer that interferes with how `path_helper` works on OS X systems. In short, the said installer creates a `.zshrc` file which contains the exploded path at the time of installation.
This clobbers any dynamically generated path, such as the one generated by `path_helper`. 

There is an [outstanding PR](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/pull/4925) on the `oh-my-zsh` repo for this. 

**Workaround 1**

Symlink the `dotnet` binary in the installation directory to a place in the global path, such as, `/usr/local/bin`.
You can use the following command to create the symbolic link:

```console
ln -s /usr/local/share/dotnet/dotnet /usr/local/bin
```

**Workaround 2**

Edit your `.zshrc` and/or `.zshprofile` files to add the `/usr/local/share/dotnet` directory to the $PATH. 

## dotnet restore times out on Windows 7 64-bit edition

**Symptom**

If you have VirtualBox and you try to use the CLI tools on a machine with Windows 7 64-bit edition installed, the `dotnet restore` command will be really slow and will eventually time out without restoring your project.

[CLI Issue #1732](https://github.com/dotnet/cli/issues/1732) is tracking this problem.

**Affects:** `dotnet restore`

**Workaround**

Disable the VirtualBox network interface and run the `dotnet restore` command.   

## Uninstalling/reinstalling the dotnet PKG files on OS X

OS X doesn't really have an uninstall capacity for its Installer packages (that is, PKG files) like Windows has for the Microsoft Windows Installer (MSI) files. But you can use [this script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dotnet/cli/rel/1.0.0/scripts/obtain/uninstall/dotnet-uninstall-pkgs.sh) available on the CLI repo to uninstall the dotnet PKG files from your OS X system.