---
title: "Sample implementations of IChatClient and IEmbeddingGenerator"
description: Learn more about the IChatClient and IEmbeddingGenerator interfaces, see simple implementations, and find links to concrete implementations.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/28/2025
---

# Sample implementations of IChatClient and IEmbeddingGenerator

.NET libraries that provide clients for language models and services can provide an implementations of the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IChatClient> and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IEmbeddingGenerator`2> interfaces. Any consumers of the interfaces are then able to interoperate seamlessly with these models and services via the abstractions.

## The `IChatClient` interface

The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IChatClient> interface defines a client abstraction responsible for interacting with AI services that provide chat capabilities. It includes methods for sending and receiving messages with multi-modal content (such as text, images, and audio), either as a complete set or streamed incrementally. Additionally, it allows for retrieving strongly typed services provided by the client or its underlying services.

.NET libraries that provide clients for language models and services can provide an implementation of the `IChatClient` interface. Any consumers of the interface are then able to interoperate seamlessly with these models and services via the abstractions.

The following sample implements `IChatClient` to show the general structure.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/sample-implementations/SampleChatClient.cs":::

For more realistic, concrete implementations of `IChatClient`, see:

- [AzureAIInferenceChatClient.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/main/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.AI.AzureAIInference/AzureAIInferenceChatClient.cs)
- [OpenAIChatClient.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/main/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.AI.OpenAI/OpenAIChatClient.cs)
- [Microsoft.Extensions.AI chat clients](https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/tree/main/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.AI/ChatCompletion)

## The `IEmbeddingGenerator<TInput,TEmbedding>` interface

The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IEmbeddingGenerator`2> interface represents a generic generator of embeddings. Here, `TInput` is the type of input values being embedded, and `TEmbedding` is the type of generated embedding, which inherits from the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.Embedding> class.

The `Embedding` class serves as a base class for embeddings generated by an `IEmbeddingGenerator<TInput,TEmbedding>`. It's designed to store and manage the metadata and data associated with embeddings. Derived types, like `Embedding<T>`, provide the concrete embedding vector data. For example, an `Embedding<float>` exposes a `ReadOnlyMemory<float> Vector { get; }` property for access to its embedding data.

The `IEmbeddingGenerator<TInput,TEmbedding>` interface defines a method to asynchronously generate embeddings for a collection of input values, with optional configuration and cancellation support. It also provides metadata describing the generator and allows for the retrieval of strongly typed services that can be provided by the generator or its underlying services.

The following code shows how the `SampleEmbeddingGenerator` class implements the `IEmbeddingGenerator<TInput,TEmbedding>` interface. It has a primary constructor that accepts an endpoint and model ID, which are used to identify the generator. It also implements the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI.IEmbeddingGenerator`2.GenerateAsync(System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable{`0},Microsoft.Extensions.AI.EmbeddingGenerationOptions,System.Threading.CancellationToken)> method to generate embeddings for a collection of input values.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/sample-implementations/SampleEmbeddingGenerator.cs":::

This sample implementation just generates random embedding vectors. For a more realistic, concrete implementation, see [OpenTelemetryEmbeddingGenerator.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/main/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.AI/Embeddings/OpenTelemetryEmbeddingGenerator.cs).
