docs/framework/unmanaged-api/debugging/index.md, before:

---
description: "Learn more about: Debugging (Unmanaged API Reference)"
title: "Debugging (Unmanaged API Reference)"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "unmanaged API reference [.NET Framework], debugging"
  - "debugging [.NET Framework], using the unmanaged API"
  - "native API reference [.NET Framework], debugging"
ms.assetid: f0bf70be-42ef-4c46-8709-1694b5f99018
---
# Debugging (Unmanaged API Reference)

The debugging API enables a debugger to debug code that runs in the common language runtime (CLR) environment. The code to be debugged can be any type of code that the CLR supports.

## In This Section

 [Debugging Coclasses](debugging-coclasses.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged coclasses that the debugging API uses.

 [Debugging Interfaces](debugging-interfaces.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged interfaces that allow debugging of a program that is being executed by the CLR.

 [Debugging Global Static Functions](debugging-global-static-functions.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged global static functions that the debugging API uses.

 [Debugging Enumerations](debugging-enumerations.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged enumerations that the debugging API uses.

 [Debugging Structures](debugging-structures.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged structures that the debugging API uses.

## See also

- [.NET debugging](../../../core/unmanaged-api/debugging/index.md)

Commit message:

Move ICorDebug API from /framework/ to /core/ folder (#48170)

docs/framework/unmanaged-api/debugging/index.md, after:

---
description: "Learn more about: Debugging (Unmanaged API Reference)"
title: "Debugging (Unmanaged API Reference)"
ms.date: "03/30/2017"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "unmanaged API reference [.NET Framework], debugging"
  - "debugging [.NET Framework], using the unmanaged API"
  - "native API reference [.NET Framework], debugging"
ms.assetid: f0bf70be-42ef-4c46-8709-1694b5f99018
---
# Debugging (Unmanaged API Reference)

The debugging API enables a debugger to debug code that runs in the common language runtime (CLR) environment. The code to be debugged can be any type of code that the CLR supports.

These articles describe APIs for .NET Framework. For unmanaged APIs that are supported on .NET (Core), see [.NET debugging (unmanaged API reference)](../../../core/unmanaged-api/debugging/index.md).

## In This Section

 [Debugging Coclasses](debugging-coclasses.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged coclasses that the debugging API uses.

 [Debugging Interfaces](debugging-interfaces.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged interfaces that allow debugging of a program that is being executed by the CLR.

 [Debugging Global Static Functions](debugging-global-static-functions.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged global static functions that the debugging API uses.

 [Debugging Enumerations](debugging-enumerations.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged enumerations that the debugging API uses.

 [Debugging Structures](debugging-structures.md)\
 Describes the unmanaged structures that the debugging API uses.

## See also

- [.NET debugging](../../../core/unmanaged-api/debugging/index.md)
