docs/csharp/tutorials/console-webapiclient.md, before:

---
title: "Tutorial: Make HTTP requests in a .NET console app"
description: Learn how to make HTTP requests to a REST web service and deserialize JSON responses. This tutorial creates a .NET console and uses C#.
ms.date: 10/28/2022
---

# Tutorial: Make HTTP requests in a .NET console app using C\#

This tutorial builds an app that issues HTTP requests to a REST service on GitHub. The app reads information in JSON format and converts the JSON into C# objects. Converting from JSON to C# objects is known as *deserialization*.

The tutorial shows how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> * Send HTTP requests.
> * Deserialize JSON responses.
> * Configure deserialization with attributes.

If you prefer to follow along with the [final sample](/samples/dotnet/samples/console-webapiclient/) for this tutorial, you can download it. For download instructions, see [Samples and Tutorials](../../samples-and-tutorials/index.md#view-and-download-samples).

## Prerequisites

[!INCLUDE [Prerequisites](../../../includes/prerequisites-basic.md)]

## Create the client app

1. Open a command prompt and create a new directory for your app. Make that the current
directory.

1. Enter the following command in a console window:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet new console --name WebAPIClient
   ```

   This command creates the starter files for a basic "Hello World" app. The project name is "WebAPIClient".

1. Navigate into the "WebAPIClient" directory, and run the app.

   ```dotnetcli
   cd WebAPIClient
   ```

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

   [`dotnet run`](../../core/tools/dotnet-run.md) automatically runs [`dotnet restore`](../../core/tools/dotnet-restore.md) to restore any dependencies that the app needs. It also runs [`dotnet build`](../../core/tools/dotnet-build.md) if needed. You should see the app output `"Hello, World!"`. In your terminal, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> to stop the app.

## Make HTTP requests

This app calls the [GitHub API](https://developer.github.com/v3/) to get information about the projects under the
[.NET Foundation](https://www.dotnetfoundation.org/) umbrella. The endpoint is <https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos>. To retrieve information, it makes an HTTP GET request. Browsers also make HTTP GET requests, so you can paste that URL into your browser address bar to see what information you'll be receiving and processing.

Use the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> class to make HTTP requests. <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> supports only async methods for its long-running APIs. So the following steps create an async method and call it from the Main method.

1. Open the `Program.cs` file in your project directory and replace its contents with the following:

    ```csharp
    await ProcessRepositoriesAsync();

    static async Task ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
    {
    }
    ```

   This code:

   * Replaces the `Console.WriteLine` statement with a call to `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` that uses the `await` keyword.
   * Defines an empty `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method.

1. In the `Program` class, use an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to handle requests and responses, by replacing the content with the following C#.

    ```csharp
    using System.Net.Http.Headers;

    using HttpClient client = new();
    client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Accept.Clear();
    client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Accept.Add(
        new MediaTypeWithQualityHeaderValue("application/vnd.github.v3+json"));
    client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Add("User-Agent", ".NET Foundation Repository Reporter");

    await ProcessRepositoriesAsync(client);

    static async Task ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
    {
    }
    ```

   This code:

   * Sets up HTTP headers for all requests:
     * An [`Accept`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Accept) header to accept JSON responses
     * A [`User-Agent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/User-Agent) header.
     These headers are checked by the GitHub server code and are necessary to retrieve information from GitHub.

1. In the `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method, call the GitHub endpoint that returns a list of all repositories under the .NET foundation organization:

   ```csharp
    static async Task ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
    {
        var json = await client.GetStringAsync(
            "https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos");
    
        Console.Write(json);
    }
   ```

   This code:

   * Awaits the task returned from calling <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method. This method sends an HTTP GET request to the specified URI. The body of the response is returned as a <xref:System.String>, which is available when the task completes.
   * The response string `json` is printed to the console.

1. Build the app and run it.

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

   There is no build warning because the `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` now contains an `await` operator. The output is a long display of JSON text.

## Deserialize the JSON Result

The following steps convert the JSON response into C# objects. You use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> class to deserialize JSON into objects.

1. Create a file named *Repository.cs* and add the following code:

   ```csharp
   public record class Repository(string name);
   ```

   The preceding code defines a class to represent the JSON object returned from the GitHub API. You'll use this class to display a list of repository names.

   The JSON for a repository object contains dozens of properties, but only the `name` property will be deserialized. The serializer automatically ignores JSON properties for which there is no match in the target class. This feature makes it easier to create types that work with only a subset of fields in a large JSON packet.

   The C# convention is to [capitalize the first letter of property names](../../standard/design-guidelines/capitalization-conventions.md), but the `name` property here starts with a lowercase letter because that matches exactly what's in the JSON. Later you'll see how to use C# property names that don't match the JSON property names.

1. Use the serializer to convert JSON into C# objects. Replace the call to
<xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)> in the `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method with the following lines:

    ```csharp
    await using Stream stream =
        await client.GetStreamAsync("https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos");
    var repositories =
        await JsonSerializer.DeserializeAsync<List<Repository>>(stream);
    ```

   The updated code replaces <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)> with <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStreamAsync(System.String)>. This serializer method uses a stream instead of a string as its source.

   The first argument to <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.DeserializeAsync%60%601(System.IO.Stream,System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions,System.Threading.CancellationToken)?displayProperty=nameWithType> is an `await` expression. `await` expressions can appear almost anywhere in your code, even though up to now, you've only seen them as part of an assignment statement. The other two parameters, `JsonSerializerOptions` and `CancellationToken`, are optional and are omitted in the code snippet.

   The `DeserializeAsync` method is [*generic*](../fundamentals/types/generics.md), which means you supply type arguments for what kind of objects should be created from the JSON text. In this example, you're deserializing to a `List<Repository>`, which is another generic object, a <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The `List<T>` class stores a collection of objects. The type argument declares the type of objects stored in the `List<T>`. The type argument is your `Repository` record, because the JSON text represents a collection of repository objects.

1. Add code to display the name of each repository. Replace the lines that read:

    ```csharp
    Console.Write(json);
    ```

    with the following code:

    ```csharp
    foreach (var repo in repositories ?? Enumerable.Empty<Repository>())
        Console.Write(repo.name);
    ```

1. The following `using` directives should be present at the top of the file:

    ```csharp
    using System.Net.Http.Headers;
    using System.Text.Json;
    ```

1. Run the app.

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

   The output is a list of the names of the repositories that are part of the .NET Foundation.

## Configure deserialization

1. In *Repository.cs*, replace the file contents with the following C#.

    ```csharp
    using System.Text.Json.Serialization;

    public record class Repository(
        [property: JsonPropertyName("name")] string Name);
    ```

    This code:

    * Changes the name of the `name` property to `Name`.
    * Adds the <xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.JsonPropertyNameAttribute> to specify how this property appears in the JSON.

1. In *Program.cs*, update the code to use the new capitalization of the `Name` property:

   ```csharp
   foreach (var repo in repositories)
      Console.Write(repo.Name);
   ```

1. Run the app.

   The output is the same.

## Refactor the code

The `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method can do the async work and return a collection of the repositories. Change that method to return `Task<List<Repository>>`, and move the code that writes to the console near its caller.

1. Change the signature of `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` to return a task whose result is a list of `Repository` objects:

   ```csharp
   static async Task<List<Repository>> ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
   ```

1. Return the repositories after processing the JSON response:

    ```csharp
    await using Stream stream =
        await client.GetStreamAsync("https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos");
    var repositories =
        await JsonSerializer.DeserializeAsync<List<Repository>>(stream);
    return repositories ?? new();
    ```

   The compiler generates the `Task<T>` object for the return value because you've marked this method as `async`.

1. Modify the *Program.cs* file, replacing the call to `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` with the following to capture the results and write each repository name to the console.

    ```csharp
    var repositories = await ProcessRepositoriesAsync(client);

    foreach (var repo in repositories)
        Console.Write(repo.Name);
    ```

1. Run the app.

   The output is the same.

## Deserialize more properties

The following steps add code to process more of the properties in the received JSON packet. You probably won't want to process every property, but adding a few more demonstrates other features of C#.

1. Replace the contents of `Repository` class, with the following `record` definition:

    ```csharp
    using System.Text.Json.Serialization;

    public record class Repository(
        [property: JsonPropertyName("name")] string Name,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("description")] string Description,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("html_url")] Uri GitHubHomeUrl,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("homepage")] Uri Homepage,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("watchers")] int Watchers);
    ```

   The <xref:System.Uri> and `int` types have built-in functionality to convert to and from string representation. No extra code is needed to deserialize from JSON string format to those target types. If the JSON packet contains data that doesn't convert to a target type, the serialization action throws an exception.

1. Update the `foreach` loop in the *Program.cs* file to display the property values:

    ```csharp
    foreach (var repo in repositories)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Name: {repo.Name}");
        Console.WriteLine($"Homepage: {repo.Homepage}");
        Console.WriteLine($"GitHub: {repo.GitHubHomeUrl}");
        Console.WriteLine($"Description: {repo.Description}");
        Console.WriteLine($"Watchers: {repo.Watchers:#,0}");
        Console.WriteLine();
    }
    ```

1. Run the app.

   The list now includes the additional properties.

## Add a date property

The date of the last push operation is formatted in this fashion in the JSON response:

```json
2016-02-08T21:27:00Z
```

This format is for Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), so the result of deserialization is a <xref:System.DateTime> value whose <xref:System.DateTime.Kind%2A> property is <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Utc>.

To get a date and time represented in your time zone, you have to write a custom conversion method.

1. In *Repository.cs*, add a property for the UTC representation of the date and time and a readonly `LastPush` property that returns the date converted to local time, the file should look like the following:

    :::code source="snippets/WebAPIClient/Repository.cs":::

   The `LastPush` property is defined using an *expression-bodied member* for the `get` accessor. There's no `set` accessor. Omitting the `set` accessor is one way to define a *read-only* property in C#. (Yes, you can create *write-only* properties in C#, but their value is limited.)

1. Add another output statement in *Program.cs*:
again:

   ```csharp
   Console.WriteLine($"Last push: {repo.LastPush}");
   ```

1. The complete app should resemble the following *Program.cs* file:

    :::code source="snippets/WebAPIClient/Program.cs":::

1. Run the app.

   The output includes the date and time of the last push to each repository.

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created an app that makes web requests and parses the results. Your version of the app should now match the [finished sample](/samples/dotnet/samples/console-webapiclient/).

Learn more about how to configure JSON serialization in [How to serialize and deserialize (marshal and unmarshal) JSON in .NET](../../standard/serialization/system-text-json/how-to.md).

Commit message:

Use Net.Http.Json extension method GetFromJsonAsync instead of JsonSerializer

docs/csharp/tutorials/console-webapiclient.md, after:

---
title: "Tutorial: Make HTTP requests in a .NET console app"
description: Learn how to make HTTP requests to a REST web service and deserialize JSON responses. This tutorial creates a .NET console and uses C#.
ms.date: 10/28/2022
---

# Tutorial: Make HTTP requests in a .NET console app using C\#

This tutorial builds an app that issues HTTP requests to a REST service on GitHub. The app reads information in JSON format and converts the JSON into C# objects. Converting from JSON to C# objects is known as *deserialization*.

The tutorial shows how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> * Send HTTP requests.
> * Deserialize JSON responses.
> * Configure deserialization with attributes.

If you prefer to follow along with the [final sample](/samples/dotnet/samples/console-webapiclient/) for this tutorial, you can download it. For download instructions, see [Samples and Tutorials](../../samples-and-tutorials/index.md#view-and-download-samples).

## Prerequisites

[!INCLUDE [Prerequisites](../../../includes/prerequisites-basic.md)]

## Create the client app

1. Open a command prompt and create a new directory for your app. Make that the current
directory.

1. Enter the following command in a console window:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet new console --name WebAPIClient
   ```

   This command creates the starter files for a basic "Hello World" app. The project name is "WebAPIClient".

1. Navigate into the "WebAPIClient" directory, and run the app.

   ```dotnetcli
   cd WebAPIClient
   ```

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

   [`dotnet run`](../../core/tools/dotnet-run.md) automatically runs [`dotnet restore`](../../core/tools/dotnet-restore.md) to restore any dependencies that the app needs. It also runs [`dotnet build`](../../core/tools/dotnet-build.md) if needed. You should see the app output `"Hello, World!"`. In your terminal, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> to stop the app.

## Make HTTP requests

This app calls the [GitHub API](https://developer.github.com/v3/) to get information about the projects under the
[.NET Foundation](https://www.dotnetfoundation.org/) umbrella. The endpoint is <https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos>. To retrieve information, it makes an HTTP GET request. Browsers also make HTTP GET requests, so you can paste that URL into your browser address bar to see what information you'll be receiving and processing.

Use the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> class to make HTTP requests. <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> supports only async methods for its long-running APIs. So the following steps create an async method and call it from the Main method.

1. Open the `Program.cs` file in your project directory and replace its contents with the following:

    ```csharp
    await ProcessRepositoriesAsync();

    static async Task ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
    {
    }
    ```

   This code:

   * Replaces the `Console.WriteLine` statement with a call to `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` that uses the `await` keyword.
   * Defines an empty `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method.

1. In the `Program` class, use an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to handle requests and responses, by replacing the content with the following C#.

    ```csharp
    using System.Net.Http.Headers;

    using HttpClient client = new();
    client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Accept.Clear();
    client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Accept.Add(
        new MediaTypeWithQualityHeaderValue("application/vnd.github.v3+json"));
    client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Add("User-Agent", ".NET Foundation Repository Reporter");

    await ProcessRepositoriesAsync(client);

    static async Task ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
    {
    }
    ```

   This code:

   * Sets up HTTP headers for all requests:
     * An [`Accept`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Accept) header to accept JSON responses
     * A [`User-Agent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/User-Agent) header.
     These headers are checked by the GitHub server code and are necessary to retrieve information from GitHub.

1. In the `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method, call the GitHub endpoint that returns a list of all repositories under the .NET foundation organization:

   ```csharp
    static async Task ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
    {
        var json = await client.GetStringAsync(
            "https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos");
    
        Console.Write(json);
    }
   ```

   This code:

   * Awaits the task returned from calling <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)?displayProperty=nameWithType> method. This method sends an HTTP GET request to the specified URI. The body of the response is returned as a <xref:System.String>, which is available when the task completes.
   * The response string `json` is printed to the console.

1. Build the app and run it.

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

   There is no build warning because the `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` now contains an `await` operator. The output is a long display of JSON text.

## Deserialize the JSON Result

The following steps simplify the approach to fetching the data and processing it. You will use the <xref:System.Net.Http.Json.HttpClientJsonExtensions.GetFromJsonAsync%2A> extension method that's part of the [📦 System.Net.Http.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Net.Http.Json) NuGet package to fetch and deserialize the JSON results into objects.

1. Create a file named *Repository.cs* and add the following code:

   ```csharp
   public record class Repository(string name);
   ```

   The preceding code defines a class to represent the JSON object returned from the GitHub API. You'll use this class to display a list of repository names.

   The JSON for a repository object contains dozens of properties, but only the `name` property will be deserialized. The serializer automatically ignores JSON properties for which there is no match in the target class. This feature makes it easier to create types that work with only a subset of fields in a large JSON packet.

   The C# convention is to [capitalize the first letter of property names](../../standard/design-guidelines/capitalization-conventions.md), but the `name` property here starts with a lowercase letter because that matches exactly what's in the JSON. Later you'll see how to use C# property names that don't match the JSON property names.

1. Use the <xref:System.Net.Http.Json.HttpClientJsonExtensions.GetFromJsonAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to fetch and convert JSON into C# objects. Replace the call to <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)> in the `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method with the following lines:

    ```csharp
    var repositories = await client.GetFromJsonAsync<List<Repository>>("https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos");
    ```

   The updated code replaces <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)> with <xref:System.Net.Http.Json.HttpClientJsonExtensions.GetFromJsonAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. This `GetFromJsonAsync` method 

   The first argument to `GetFromJsonAsync` method is an `await` expression. `await` expressions can appear almost anywhere in your code, even though up to now, you've only seen them as part of an assignment statement. The next parameter, `requestUri` is optional and doesn't have to be provided if was already specified when creating the `client` object. You didn't provide the `client` object with the URI to send request to, so you specified the URI now. The last optional parameter, the `CancellationToken` is omitted in the code snippet.

   The `GetFromJsonAsync` method is [*generic*](../fundamentals/types/generics.md), which means you supply type arguments for what kind of objects should be created from the fetched JSON text. In this example, you're deserializing to a `List<Repository>`, which is another generic object, a <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The `List<T>` class stores a collection of objects. The type argument declares the type of objects stored in the `List<T>`. The type argument is your `Repository` record, because the JSON text represents a collection of repository objects.

1. Add code to display the name of each repository. Replace the lines that read:

    ```csharp
    Console.Write(json);
    ```

    with the following code:

    ```csharp
    foreach (var repo in repositories ?? Enumerable.Empty<Repository>())
        Console.Write(repo.name);
    ```

1. The following `using` directives should be present at the top of the file:

    ```csharp
    using System.Net.Http.Headers;
    using System.Net.Http.Json;
    ```

1. Run the app.

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet run
   ```

   The output is a list of the names of the repositories that are part of the .NET Foundation.

## Configure deserialization

1. In *Repository.cs*, replace the file contents with the following C#.

    ```csharp
    using System.Text.Json.Serialization;

    public record class Repository(
        [property: JsonPropertyName("name")] string Name);
    ```

    This code:

    * Changes the name of the `name` property to `Name`.
    * Adds the <xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.JsonPropertyNameAttribute> to specify how this property appears in the JSON.

1. In *Program.cs*, update the code to use the new capitalization of the `Name` property:

   ```csharp
   foreach (var repo in repositories)
      Console.Write(repo.Name);
   ```

1. Run the app.

   The output is the same.

## Refactor the code

The `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` method can do the async work and return a collection of the repositories. Change that method to return `Task<List<Repository>>`, and move the code that writes to the console near its caller.

1. Change the signature of `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` to return a task whose result is a list of `Repository` objects:

   ```csharp
   static async Task<List<Repository>> ProcessRepositoriesAsync(HttpClient client)
   ```

1. Return the repositories after processing the JSON response:

    ```csharp
    await using Stream stream =
        await client.GetStreamAsync("https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos");
    var repositories =
        await JsonSerializer.DeserializeAsync<List<Repository>>(stream);
    return repositories ?? new();
    ```

   The compiler generates the `Task<T>` object for the return value because you've marked this method as `async`.

1. Modify the *Program.cs* file, replacing the call to `ProcessRepositoriesAsync` with the following to capture the results and write each repository name to the console.

    ```csharp
    var repositories = await ProcessRepositoriesAsync(client);

    foreach (var repo in repositories)
        Console.Write(repo.Name);
    ```

1. Run the app.

   The output is the same.

## Deserialize more properties

The following steps add code to process more of the properties in the received JSON packet. You probably won't want to process every property, but adding a few more demonstrates other features of C#.

1. Replace the contents of `Repository` class, with the following `record` definition:

    ```csharp
    using System.Text.Json.Serialization;

    public record class Repository(
        [property: JsonPropertyName("name")] string Name,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("description")] string Description,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("html_url")] Uri GitHubHomeUrl,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("homepage")] Uri Homepage,
        [property: JsonPropertyName("watchers")] int Watchers);
    ```

   The <xref:System.Uri> and `int` types have built-in functionality to convert to and from string representation. No extra code is needed to deserialize from JSON string format to those target types. If the JSON packet contains data that doesn't convert to a target type, the serialization action throws an exception.

1. Update the `foreach` loop in the *Program.cs* file to display the property values:

    ```csharp
    foreach (var repo in repositories)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Name: {repo.Name}");
        Console.WriteLine($"Homepage: {repo.Homepage}");
        Console.WriteLine($"GitHub: {repo.GitHubHomeUrl}");
        Console.WriteLine($"Description: {repo.Description}");
        Console.WriteLine($"Watchers: {repo.Watchers:#,0}");
        Console.WriteLine();
    }
    ```

1. Run the app.

   The list now includes the additional properties.

## Add a date property

The date of the last push operation is formatted in this fashion in the JSON response:

```json
2016-02-08T21:27:00Z
```

This format is for Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), so the result of deserialization is a <xref:System.DateTime> value whose <xref:System.DateTime.Kind%2A> property is <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Utc>.

To get a date and time represented in your time zone, you have to write a custom conversion method.

1. In *Repository.cs*, add a property for the UTC representation of the date and time and a readonly `LastPush` property that returns the date converted to local time, the file should look like the following:

    :::code source="snippets/WebAPIClient/Repository.cs":::

   The `LastPush` property is defined using an *expression-bodied member* for the `get` accessor. There's no `set` accessor. Omitting the `set` accessor is one way to define a *read-only* property in C#. (Yes, you can create *write-only* properties in C#, but their value is limited.)

1. Add another output statement in *Program.cs*:
again:

   ```csharp
   Console.WriteLine($"Last push: {repo.LastPush}");
   ```

1. The complete app should resemble the following *Program.cs* file:

    :::code source="snippets/WebAPIClient/Program.cs":::

1. Run the app.

   The output includes the date and time of the last push to each repository.

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created an app that makes web requests and parses the results. Your version of the app should now match the [finished sample](/samples/dotnet/samples/console-webapiclient/).

Learn more about how to configure JSON serialization in [How to serialize and deserialize (marshal and unmarshal) JSON in .NET](../../standard/serialization/system-text-json/how-to.md).
