---
title: Publishing your Hello World application with Visual Studio 2017
description: Publishing Your Hello World Application with Visual Studio 2017
keywords: .NET, .NET Core, .NET Core console application
author: stevehoag
ms.author: shoag
ms.date: 10/24/2016
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: .net-core
ms.technology: devlang-csharp
ms.devlang: csharp
ms.assetid: a19545d3-24af-4a32-9778-cfb5ae938287
---

# Publishing your Hello World application with Visual Studio 2017

In [Building a C# Hello World application with .NET Core in Visual Studio 2017 RC](with-visual-studio-2017.md), you built your Hello World console application, and in [Debugging your C# Hello World application with Visual Studio 2017 RC](debugging-with-visual-studio-2017.md), you tested it using the Visual Studio debugger. Now that you're sure that it works as expected, you an publish it so that other users can run it. Publishing creates the set of files that are needed to run your application; you can deploy them by copying them to a target machine.

Publishing .NET Core console applications from Visual Studio has not yet been implemented in the RC release. It will be implemented in the final release of Visual Studio 2017.

You can publish your application using the [dotnet.exe](../../core/tools/dotnet.md) command-line utility. To do this:

1. Open a console window. For example, in the **Ask me anything** text box in the Windows taskbar, enter `Command Prompt`, and then choose the **Command Prompt** desktop app to open the console window.

1. Navigate to your library's project directory. Typically, unless you've reconfigured the file location, it is in the `Documents\Visual Studio 2017\Projects\HelloWorld\HelloWorld` directory. The directory contains your source code and a project file, `HelloWorld.csproj`.

1. To build a debug build of your application, issue the command `dotnet.exe publish -c debug`. To publish a release build, issue the command `dotnet.exe publish -c release`. It's generally a good idea to create a debug build of your application for additional testing, and to create the release version when testing has ended.

> [!TIP] 
> If the directory that contains `dotnet.exe` is not in your path, you can find its location by entering `where dotnet.exe` in the console window.

For debug versions, the final files are found in the `.\bin\debug\netcoreapp1.0\publish` directory. For release versions, they're found in the `.\bin\release\netcoreapp1.0\publish` directory. You can deploy them to target systems by copying the files generated by the publishing process into a single directory or folder. You do not have to include the `HelloWorld.pdb` file, which contains symbols used for debugging.

The publishing process has created a framework-dependent deployment; the published application will run on any platform supported by .NET Core, as long as .NET Core is installed on the system. Users can run your application by issuing the `dotnet.exe HelloWorld.dll` command from a console window.

For more information on publishing and deploying .NET Core applications, see [.NET Core Application Deployment](../../core/deploying/index.md).
