docs/csharp/language-reference/keywords/base.md, before:

---
title: "base keyword"
description: Learn about the base keyword, which is used to access members of the base class from within a derived class in C#.
ms.date: 07/20/2015
f1_keywords: 
  - "base"
  - "BaseClass.BaseClass"
  - "base_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "base keyword [C#]"
ms.assetid: 8b645dbe-1a33-49b8-8716-1c401f9a5ea5
---
# base (C# Reference)

The `base` keyword is used to access members of the base class from within a derived class. Use it if you want to:

- Call a method on the base class that has been overridden by another method.

- Specify which base-class constructor should be called when creating instances of the derived class.

The base class access is permitted only in a constructor, in an instance method, and in an instance property accessor.

Using the `base` keyword from within a static method will give an error.

The base class that is accessed is the base class specified in the class declaration. For example, if you specify `class ClassB : ClassA`, the members of ClassA are accessed from ClassB, regardless of the base class of ClassA.

## Example 1

In this example, both the base class `Person` and the derived class `Employee` have a method named `GetInfo`. By using the `base` keyword, it is possible to call the `GetInfo` method of the base class from within the derived class.

[!code-csharp[csrefKeywordsAccess#1](~/samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_VBCSharp/csrefKeywordsAccess/CS/csrefKeywordsAccess.cs#1)]

For additional examples, see [new](new-modifier.md), [virtual](virtual.md), and [override](override.md).

## Example 2

This example shows how to specify the base-class constructor called when creating instances of a derived class.

[!code-csharp[csrefKeywordsAccess#2](~/samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_VBCSharp/csrefKeywordsAccess/CS/csrefKeywordsAccess.cs#2)]

## C# language specification

[!INCLUDE[CSharplangspec](~/includes/csharplangspec-md.md)]

## See also

- [C# Keywords](./index.md)
- [this](./this.md)

Commit message:

First draft of the language reference

docs/csharp/language-reference/keywords/base.md, after:

---
title: "The base keyword"
description: Learn about the base keyword, which is used to access members of the base class from within a derived class in C#.
ms.date: 04/08/2025
f1_keywords: 
  - "base"
  - "BaseClass.BaseClass"
  - "base_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "base keyword [C#]"
---
# The base keyword

The `base` keyword is used to access members of the base class from within a derived class. Use it if you want to:

- Call a method on the base class overridden by another method.
- Specify which base-class constructor should be called when creating instances of the derived class.

The base class access is permitted only in a constructor, in an instance method, and in an instance property accessor. Using the `base` keyword from within a static method produces an error.

The base class that is accessed is the base class specified in the class declaration. For example, if you specify `class ClassB : ClassA`, the members of ClassA are accessed from ClassB, regardless of the base class of ClassA.

In this example, both the base class `Person` and the derived class `Employee` have a method named `GetInfo`. By using the `base` keyword, it's possible to call the `GetInfo` method of the base class from within the derived class.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/csrefKeywordsAccess.cs" id="snippet1":::

This example shows how to specify the base-class constructor called when creating instances of a derived class.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/csrefKeywordsAccess.cs" id="snippet2":::

For more examples, see [new](new-modifier.md), [virtual](virtual.md), and [override](override.md).

## C# language specification

[!INCLUDE[CSharplangspec](~/includes/csharplangspec-md.md)]

## See also

- [C# Keywords](./index.md)
- [The `this` keyword](./this.md)
