docs/csharp/language-reference/index.md, before:

---
title: "C# Reference"
ms.date: 02/14/2017
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Visual C#, language reference"
  - "language reference [C#]"
  - "Programmer's Reference for C#"
  - "C# language, reference"
  - "reference, C# language"
ms.assetid: 06de3167-c16c-4e1a-b3c5-c27841d4569a
---
# C# Reference
This section provides reference material about C# keywords, operators, special characters, preprocessor directives, compiler options, and compiler errors and warnings.  
  
## In This Section  
 [C# Keywords](./keywords/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about C# keywords and syntax.  
  
 [C# Operators](./operators/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about C# operators and syntax.  

 [C# Special Characters](./tokens/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about special contextual characters in C# and their usage.  

 [C# Preprocessor Directives](./preprocessor-directives/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about compiler commands for embedding in C# source code.  
  
 [C# Compiler Options](./compiler-options/index.md)  
 Includes information about compiler options and how to use them.  
  
 [C# Compiler Errors](./compiler-messages/index.md)  
 Includes code snippets that demonstrate the cause and correction of C# compiler errors and warnings.  
  
 [C# Language Specification](../../../_csharplang/spec/introduction.md)  
 The C# 6.0 language specification. This is a draft proposal for the C# 6.0 language. Version 5.0 has been released in December 2017 as the [Standard ECMA-334 5th Edition](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-334.pdf) document.

The features that have been implemented in C# versions after 6.0 are represented in language specification proposals. These documents describe the deltas to the language spec in order to add these new features.

 [C# 7.0 Language Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.0/pattern-matching.md)  
 There are a number of new features implemented in C# 7.0. They include pattern matching, local functions, out variable declarations, throw expressions, binary literals, and digit separators. This folder contains the specifications for each of those features.
  
 [C# 7.1 Language Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.1/async-main.md)  
 There are new features added in C# 7.1. First, you can write a `Main` method that returns `Task` or `Task<int>`. This enables you to add the `async` modifier to `Main`. The `default` expression can be used without a type in locations where the type can be inferred. Also, tuple member names can be inferred. Finally, pattern matching can be used with generics.

 [C# 7.2 Language Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.2/readonly-ref.md)  
 C# 7.2 added a number of small features. You can pass arguments by readonly reference using the `in` keyword. There are a number of low-level changes to support compile-time safety for `Span` and related types. You can use named arguments where later arguments are positional, in some situations. The `private protected` access modifier enables you to specify that callers are limited to derived types implemented in the same assembly. The `?:` operator can resolve to a reference to a variable. You can also format hexadecimal and binary numbers using a leading digit separator.

 [C# 7.3 Language Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.3/blittable.md)  
 C# 7.3 is another point release that includes several small updates. You can use new constraints on generic type parameters. Other changes make it easier to work with `fixed` fields, including using [`stackalloc`](./operators/stackalloc.md) allocations. Local variables declared with the `ref` keyword may be reasssigned to refer to new storage. You can place attributes on auto-implemented properties that target the compiler-generated backing field. Expression variables can be used in initializers. Tuples can be compared for equality (or inequality). There have also been some improvements to overload resolution.
  
 [C# 8.0 Language Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/nullable-reference-types.md)
 C# 8.0 is available in preview. The following proposals are the current versions of the specifications for those features. Some are more complete; some are still a work in progress. The features that have shipped in previews include nullable reference types, recursive pattern matching, async streams, ranges and indexes, pattern based using and using declarations, and null coalescing assignment.
  
## Related Sections  

 [C# Guide](../index.md)  
 Provides a portal to Visual C# documentation.  
  
 [Using the Visual Studio Development Environment for C#](/visualstudio/csharp-ide/using-the-visual-studio-development-environment-for-csharp)  
 Provides links to conceptual and task topics that describe the IDE and Editor.  
  
 [C# Programming Guide](../programming-guide/index.md)  
 Includes information about how to use the C# programming language.

Commit message:

Publish the remaining specifications for C# 8
Fixes #12772

There are three small changes in this PR:

1. add TOC nodes for the remaining C# 8 features.
1. Remove "preview" language from the language reference home page.
1. Change "language proposals" to "specification proposal". Include clarifying language in the home page. The hypothesis is that it removes confusion because these are proposals that will be refined for the standard, not proposals that haven't been implemented.

docs/csharp/language-reference/index.md, after:

---
title: "C# Reference"
ms.date: 02/14/2017
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Visual C#, language reference"
  - "language reference [C#]"
  - "Programmer's Reference for C#"
  - "C# language, reference"
  - "reference, C# language"
ms.assetid: 06de3167-c16c-4e1a-b3c5-c27841d4569a
---
# C# Reference
This section provides reference material about C# keywords, operators, special characters, preprocessor directives, compiler options, and compiler errors and warnings.  
  
## In This Section  
 [C# Keywords](./keywords/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about C# keywords and syntax.  
  
 [C# Operators](./operators/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about C# operators and syntax.  

 [C# Special Characters](./tokens/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about special contextual characters in C# and their usage.  

 [C# Preprocessor Directives](./preprocessor-directives/index.md)  
 Provides links to information about compiler commands for embedding in C# source code.  
  
 [C# Compiler Options](./compiler-options/index.md)  
 Includes information about compiler options and how to use them.  
  
 [C# Compiler Errors](./compiler-messages/index.md)  
 Includes code snippets that demonstrate the cause and correction of C# compiler errors and warnings.  
  
 [C# Language Specification](../../../_csharplang/spec/introduction.md)  
 The C# 6.0 language specification. This is a draft proposal for the C# 6.0 language. Version 5.0 has been released in December 2017 as the [Standard ECMA-334 5th Edition](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-334.pdf) document. This document will be refined through work with the ECMA C# standards committee.

The features that have been implemented in C# versions after 6.0 are represented in language specification proposals. These documents describe the deltas to the language spec in order to add these new features. These are in draft proposal form. These specifications will be refined and submitted to the ECMA standards committee for formal review and incorporation into a future version of the C# Standard.

 [C# 7.0 Specification Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.0/pattern-matching.md)  
 There are a number of new features implemented in C# 7.0. They include pattern matching, local functions, out variable declarations, throw expressions, binary literals, and digit separators. This folder contains the specifications for each of those features.
  
 [C# 7.1 Specification Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.1/async-main.md)  
 There are new features added in C# 7.1. First, you can write a `Main` method that returns `Task` or `Task<int>`. This enables you to add the `async` modifier to `Main`. The `default` expression can be used without a type in locations where the type can be inferred. Also, tuple member names can be inferred. Finally, pattern matching can be used with generics.

 [C# 7.2 Specification Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.2/readonly-ref.md)  
 C# 7.2 added a number of small features. You can pass arguments by readonly reference using the `in` keyword. There are a number of low-level changes to support compile-time safety for `Span` and related types. You can use named arguments where later arguments are positional, in some situations. The `private protected` access modifier enables you to specify that callers are limited to derived types implemented in the same assembly. The `?:` operator can resolve to a reference to a variable. You can also format hexadecimal and binary numbers using a leading digit separator.

 [C# 7.3 Specification Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-7.3/blittable.md)  
 C# 7.3 is another point release that includes several small updates. You can use new constraints on generic type parameters. Other changes make it easier to work with `fixed` fields, including using [`stackalloc`](./operators/stackalloc.md) allocations. Local variables declared with the `ref` keyword may be reasssigned to refer to new storage. You can place attributes on auto-implemented properties that target the compiler-generated backing field. Expression variables can be used in initializers. Tuples can be compared for equality (or inequality). There have also been some improvements to overload resolution.
  
 [C# 8.0 Specification Proposals](../../../_csharplang/proposals/csharp-8.0/nullable-reference-types.md)
 C# 8.0 is available with .NET Core 3.0. The following proposals are the current versions of the specifications for those features. Some are more complete; some are still a work in progress. The features that have shipped in previews include nullable reference types, recursive pattern matching, default interface members, async streams, ranges and indexes, pattern based using and using declarations, null coalescing assignment, and readonly instance members.
  
## Related Sections  

 [C# Guide](../index.md)  
 Provides a portal to Visual C# documentation.  
  
 [Using the Visual Studio Development Environment for C#](/visualstudio/csharp-ide/using-the-visual-studio-development-environment-for-csharp)  
 Provides links to conceptual and task topics that describe the IDE and Editor.  
  
 [C# Programming Guide](../programming-guide/index.md)  
 Includes information about how to use the C# programming language.
