---
title: .NET Class Libraries
description: Learn how .NET class libraries enable you to group useful functionality into modules that can be used by multiple applications.
keywords: .NET, .NET Core
author: richlander
ms.author: mairaw
ms.date: 06/20/2016
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: .net
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
ms.devlang: dotnet
ms.assetid: a67484c3-fe92-44d8-8fa3-36fa2071d880
ms.workload: 
  - "dotnet"
  - "dotnetcore"
---

# .NET Class Libraries

Class libraries are the [shared library](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_%28computing%29#Shared_libraries) concept for .NET. They enable you to componentize useful functionality into modules that can be used by multiple applications. They can also be used as a means of loading functionality that is not needed or not known at application startup. Class libraries are described using the [.NET Assembly file format](assembly-format.md).

There are three types of class libraries that you can use:

*   **Platform-specific** class libraries have access to all the APIs in a given platform (for example, .NET Framework, Xamarin iOS), but can only be used by apps and libraries that target that platform.
*   **Portable** class libraries have access to a subset of APIs, and can be used by apps and libraries that target multiple platforms.
*   **.NET Standard** class libraries are a merger of the platform-specific and portable library concept into a single model that provides the best of both.

## Platform-specific Class Libraries

Platform-specific libraries are bound to a single .NET implementation (for example, .NET Framework on Windows) and can therefore take significant dependencies on a known execution environment. Such an environment will expose a known set of APIs (.NET and OS APIs) and will maintain and expose expected state (for example, Windows registry).

Developers who create platform specific libraries can fully exploit the underlying platform. The libraries will only ever run on that given platform, making platform checks or other forms of conditional code unnecessary (modulo single sourcing code for multiple platforms).

Platform-specific libraries have been the primary class library type for the .NET Framework. Even as other .NET implementations emerged, platform-specific libraries remained the dominant library type.

## Portable Class Libraries

Portable libraries are supported on multiple .NET implementations. They can still take dependencies on a known execution environment, however, the environment is a synthetic one that is generated by the intersection of a set of concrete .NET implementations. This means that exposed APIs and platform assumptions are a subset of what would be available to a platform-specific library.

You choose a platform configuration when you create a portable library. These are the set of platforms that you need to support (for example, .NET Framework 4.5+, Windows Phone 8.0+). The more platforms you opt to support, the fewer APIs and fewer platform assumptions you can make, the lowest common denominator. This characteristic can be confusing at first, since people often think "more is better", but find that more supported platforms results in fewer available APIs.

Many library developers have switched from producing multiple platform-specific libraries from one source (using conditional compilation directives) to portable libraries. There are [several approaches](https://blog.stephencleary.com/2012/11/portable-class-library-enlightenment.html) for accessing platform-specific functionality within portable libraries, with [bait-and-switch](https://log.paulbetts.org/the-bait-and-switch-pcl-trick/) being the most widely accepted technique at this point.

### .NET Standard Class Libraries

.NET Standard libraries are a replacement of the platform-specific and portable libraries concepts. They are platform-specific in the sense that they expose all functionality from the underlying platform (no synthetic platforms or platform intersections). They are portable in the sense that they work on all supporting platforms.

The .NET Standard exposes a set of library _contracts_. .NET implementations must support each contract fully or not at all. Each implementation, therefore, supports a set of .NET Standard contracts. The corollary is that each .NET Standard class library is supported on the platforms that support it’s contract dependencies.

The .NET Standard does not expose the entire functionality of the .NET Framework (nor is that a goal), however, they do expose many more APIs than Portable Class Libraries. More APIs will be added over time.

The following platforms support .NET Standard libraries:

* .NET Core
* .NET Framework
* Mono
* Xamarin.iOS, Xamarin.Mac, Xamarin.Android
* Universal Windows Platform (UWP)
* Windows
* Windows Phone
* Windows Phone Silverlight

For more information, see the [.NET Standard](net-standard.md) topic.

### Mono Class Libraries

Class libraries are supported on Mono, including the three types of libraries described above. Mono has often been seen (correctly) as a cross-platform implementation of the Microsoft .NET Framework. In part, this was because platform-specific .NET Framework libraries could run on the Mono runtime without modification or recompilation. This characteristic was in place before the creation of portable class libraries, so was an obvious choice to enable binary portability between the .NET Framework and Mono (although it only worked in one direction).
