docs/csharp/tour-of-csharp/tutorials/index.md, before:

---
title: Interactive tutorials
description: Learn C# in your browser, and get started with your own development environment
ms.date: 03/07/2025
---
# Introduction to C\#

Welcome to the introduction to C# tutorials. These lessons start with interactive code that you can run in your browser. You can learn the basics of C# from the [C# for Beginners video series](https://aka.ms/dotnet/beginnervideos/youtube/csharp) before starting these interactive lessons.

<!--markdownlint-disable-next-line MD034 -->
> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/9THmGiSPjBQ?si=3kUKFtOMLpEzeq7J]

The first lessons explain C# concepts using small snippets of code. You'll learn the basics of C# syntax and how to work with data types like strings, numbers, and booleans. It's all interactive, and you'll be writing and running code within minutes. These first lessons assume no prior knowledge of programming or the C# language.

You can try these tutorials in different environments. The concepts you'll learn are the same. The difference is which experience you prefer:

- [In your browser, on the docs platform](hello-world.md): This experience embeds a runnable C# code window in docs pages. You write and execute C# code in the browser.
- [In the Microsoft Learn training experience](/training/paths/csharp-first-steps/). This learning path contains several modules that teach the basics of C#.

## [Hello world](hello-world.md)

In the [Hello world](hello-world.md) tutorial, you'll create the most basic C# program. You'll explore the `string` type and how to work with text. You can also use the path on [Microsoft Learn training](/training/paths/csharp-first-steps/).

## [Numbers in C#](numbers-in-csharp.md)

In the [Numbers in C#](numbers-in-csharp.md) tutorial, you'll learn how computers store numbers and how to perform calculations with different numeric types. You'll learn the basics of rounding, and how to perform mathematical calculations using C#.

This tutorial assumes that you've finished the [Hello world](hello-world.md) lesson.

## [Branches and loops](branches-and-loops.md)

The [Branches and loops](branches-and-loops.md) tutorial teaches the basics of selecting different paths of code execution based on the values stored in variables. You'll learn the basics of control flow, which is the basis of how programs make decisions and choose different actions.

This tutorial assumes that you've finished the [Hello world](hello-world.md) and [Numbers in C#](numbers-in-csharp.md) lessons.

## [List collection](list-collection.md)

The [List collection](list-collection.md) lesson gives you a tour of the List collection type that stores sequences of data. You'll learn how to add and remove items, search for items, and sort the lists. You'll explore different kinds of lists.

This tutorial assumes that you've finished the lessons listed above.

## Set up your local environment

After you finish these tutorials, set up a development environment. You'll want:

[!INCLUDE [Prerequisites](../../../../includes/prerequisites-basic-winget.md)]

Commit message:

Get Started tutorial on types (#45622)
* First draft

The code is written in snippets, and not using
the interactive window yet.

* add samples

* correct interactive bits.

Use the class type, and declare a `Main` method.

* Final proofread

Proofread, content and data check.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Genevieve Warren <24882762+gewarren@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Genevieve Warren <24882762+gewarren@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/csharp/tour-of-csharp/tutorials/index.md, after:

---
title: Interactive tutorials
description: Learn C# in your browser, and get started with your own development environment
ms.date: 03/20/2025
---
# Introduction to C\#

Welcome to the introduction to C# tutorials. These lessons start with interactive code that you can run in your browser. You can learn the basics of C# from the [C# for Beginners video series](https://aka.ms/dotnet/beginnervideos/youtube/csharp) before starting these interactive lessons.

<!--markdownlint-disable-next-line MD034 -->
> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/9THmGiSPjBQ?si=3kUKFtOMLpEzeq7J]

The first lessons explain C# concepts using small snippets of code. You'll learn the basics of C# syntax and how to work with data types like strings, numbers, and booleans. It's all interactive, and you'll be writing and running code within minutes. These first lessons assume no prior knowledge of programming or the C# language. Each lesson builds on the prior lessons. You should do them in order. However, if you have some programming experience, you can skip or skim the first lessons and start with any new concepts.

You can try these tutorials in different environments. The concepts you'll learn are the same. The difference is which experience you prefer:

- [In your browser, on the docs platform](hello-world.md): This experience embeds a runnable C# code window in docs pages. You write and execute C# code in the browser.
- [In the Microsoft Learn training experience](/training/paths/csharp-first-steps/). This learning path contains several modules that teach the basics of C#.

## Hello world

In the [Hello world](hello-world.md) tutorial, you'll create the most basic C# program. You'll explore the `string` type and how to work with text. You can also use the path on [Microsoft Learn training](/training/paths/csharp-first-steps/).

## Numbers in C\#

In the [Numbers in C#](numbers-in-csharp.md) tutorial, you'll learn how computers store numbers and how to perform calculations with different numeric types. You'll learn the basics of rounding, and how to perform mathematical calculations using C#.

## Tuples and types

In the [Tuples and types](tuples-and-types.md) tutorial, you'll learn to create types in C#. You can create *tuples*, *records*, *struct*, and *class* types. The capabilities of these different kinds of types reflect their different uses.

## Branches and loops

The [Branches and loops](branches-and-loops.md) tutorial teaches the basics of selecting different paths of code execution based on the values stored in variables. You'll learn the basics of control flow, which is the basis of how programs make decisions and choose different actions.

## List collection

The [List collection](list-collection.md) lesson gives you a tour of the List collection type that stores sequences of data. You'll learn how to add and remove items, search for items, and sort the lists. You'll explore different kinds of lists.

## Set up your local environment

After you finish these tutorials, set up a development environment. You'll want:

[!INCLUDE [Prerequisites](../../../../includes/prerequisites-basic-winget.md)]
