docs/core/resources/manifest-file-names.md, before:

---
title: How MSBuild generates manifest file names
description: Describes the factors that influence the name of a resource manifest file name that's generated by MSBuild at compile time.
ms.date: 05/08/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
---
# How resource manifest files are named

When MSBuild compiles a .NET Core project, XML resource files, which have the *.resx* file extension, are converted into binary *.resources* files. The binary files are embedded into the output of the compiler and can be read by the <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>. This article describes how MSBuild chooses a name for each *.resources* file.

> [!TIP]
> If you explicitly add a resource item to your project file, and it's also [included with the default include globs for .NET Core](../project-sdk/overview.md#default-includes-and-excludes), you will get a build error. To manually include resource files as `EmbeddedResource` items, set the `EnableDefaultEmbeddedResourceItems` property to false.

## Default name

In .NET Core 3.0 and later, the default name for a resource manifest is used when both of the following conditions are met:

- The resource file is not explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `LogicalName`, `ManifestResourceName`, or `DependentUpon` metadata.
- The `EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention` property is not set to `false` in the project file. By default, this property is set to `true`. For more information, see [EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention](../project-sdk/msbuild-props.md#embeddedresourceusedependentuponconvention).

If the resource file is colocated with a source file (*.cs* or *.vb*) of the same root file name, the full name of the first type that's defined in the source file is used for the manifest file name. For example, if `MyNamespace.Form1` is the first type defined in *Form1.cs*, and *Form1.cs* is colocated with *Form1.resx*, the generated manifest name for that resource file is *MyNamespace.Form1.resources*.

## LogicalName metadata

If a resource file is explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `LogicalName` metadata, the `LogicalName` value is used as the manifest name. `LogicalName` takes precedence over any other metadata or setting.

For example, the manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *SomeName.resources*.

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.resx" LogicalName="SomeName.resources" />
```

-or-

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.fr-FR.resx" LogicalName="SomeName.resources" />
```

## ManifestResourceName metadata

If a resource file is explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `ManifestResourceName` metadata (and `LogicalName` is absent), the `ManifestResourceName` value, combined with the file extension *.resources*, is used as the manifest file name.

For example, the manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *SomeName.resources*.

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.resx" ManifestResourceName="SomeName" />
```

The manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *SomeName.fr-FR.resources*.

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.fr-FR.resx" ManifestResourceName="SomeName.fr-FR" />
```

## DependentUpon metadata

If a resource file is explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `DependentUpon` metadata (and `LogicalName` and `ManifestResourceName` are absent), information from the source file defined by `DependentUpon` is used for the resource manifest file name. Specifically, the name of the first type that's defined in the source file is used in the manifest name as follows: *Namespace.Classname\[.Culture].resources*.

For example, the manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *Namespace.Classname.resources* (where `Namespace.Classname` is the first class that's defined in *MyTypes.cs*).

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.resx" DependentUpon="MyTypes.cs">
```

The manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *Namespace.Classname.fr-FR.resources* (where `Namespace.Classname` is the first class that's defined in *MyTypes.cs*).

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.fr-FR.resx" DependentUpon="MyTypes.cs">
```

## EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention property

If `EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention` is set to `false` in the project file, each resource manifest file name is based off the root namespace for the project and the relative path from the project root to the *.resx* file. More specifically, the generated resource manifest file name is *RootNamespace.RelativePathWithDotsForSlashes.\[Culture.]resources*. This is also the logic used to generate manifest names in .NET Core versions prior to 3.0.

> [!NOTE]
>
> - If `RootNamespace` is not defined, it defaults to the project name.
> - If `LogicalName`, `ManifestResourceName`, or `DependentUpon` metadata is specified for an `EmbeddedResource` item in the project file, this naming rule does not apply to that resource file.

## See also

- [How Manifest Resource Naming Works](https://gist.github.com/BenVillalobos/041673b9a73bec60fdc3bf0f86fae62a)
- [MSBuild properties for .NET Core SDK projects](../project-sdk/msbuild-props.md)
- [MSBuild breaking changes](../compatibility/msbuild.md)

Commit message:

Manifest file names with 2 dots don't work

docs/core/resources/manifest-file-names.md, after:

---
title: How MSBuild generates manifest file names
description: Describes the factors that influence the name of a resource manifest file name that's generated by MSBuild at compile time.
ms.date: 05/08/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
---
# How resource manifest files are named

When MSBuild compiles a .NET Core project, XML resource files, which have the *.resx* file extension, are converted into binary *.resources* files. The binary files are embedded into the output of the compiler and can be read by the <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>. This article describes how MSBuild chooses a name for each *.resources* file.

> [!TIP]
> If you explicitly add a resource item to your project file, and it's also [included with the default include globs for .NET Core](../project-sdk/overview.md#default-includes-and-excludes), you will get a build error. To manually include resource files as `EmbeddedResource` items, set the `EnableDefaultEmbeddedResourceItems` property to false.

## Default name

In .NET Core 3.0 and later, the default name for a resource manifest is used when both of the following conditions are met:

- The resource file is not explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `LogicalName`, `ManifestResourceName`, or `DependentUpon` metadata.
- The `EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention` property is not set to `false` in the project file. By default, this property is set to `true`. For more information, see [EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention](../project-sdk/msbuild-props.md#embeddedresourceusedependentuponconvention).

If the resource file is colocated with a source file (*.cs* or *.vb*) of the same root file name, the full name of the first type that's defined in the source file is used for the manifest file name. For example, if `MyNamespace.Form1` is the first type defined in *Form1.cs*, and *Form1.cs* is colocated with *Form1.resx*, the generated manifest name for that resource file is *MyNamespace.Form1.resources*.

## LogicalName metadata

If a resource file is explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `LogicalName` metadata, the `LogicalName` value is used as the manifest name. `LogicalName` takes precedence over any other metadata or setting.

For example, the manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *SomeName.resources*.

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.resx" LogicalName="SomeName.resources" />
```

-or-

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.fr-FR.resx" LogicalName="SomeName.resources" />
```

> [!NOTE]
>
> - If `LogicalName` is not specified, an `EmbeddedResource` with two dots (`.`) in the file name doesn't work, which means that `GetManifestResourceNames` doesn't return that file.
>
>   The following example works correctly:
>
>   ```
>   <EmbeddedResource Include="X.resx" />
>   ```
>
>   The following example doesn't work:
>
>   ```
>   <EmbeddedResource Include="X.fr-FR.resx"></EmbeddedResource>
>   ```


## ManifestResourceName metadata

If a resource file is explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `ManifestResourceName` metadata (and `LogicalName` is absent), the `ManifestResourceName` value, combined with the file extension *.resources*, is used as the manifest file name.

For example, the manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *SomeName.resources*.

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.resx" ManifestResourceName="SomeName" />
```

The manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *SomeName.fr-FR.resources*.

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.fr-FR.resx" ManifestResourceName="SomeName.fr-FR" />
```

## DependentUpon metadata

If a resource file is explicitly included in the project file as an `EmbeddedResource` item with `DependentUpon` metadata (and `LogicalName` and `ManifestResourceName` are absent), information from the source file defined by `DependentUpon` is used for the resource manifest file name. Specifically, the name of the first type that's defined in the source file is used in the manifest name as follows: *Namespace.Classname\[.Culture].resources*.

For example, the manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *Namespace.Classname.resources* (where `Namespace.Classname` is the first class that's defined in *MyTypes.cs*).

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.resx" DependentUpon="MyTypes.cs">
```

The manifest name for the resource file that's defined in the following project file snippet is *Namespace.Classname.fr-FR.resources* (where `Namespace.Classname` is the first class that's defined in *MyTypes.cs*).

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="X.fr-FR.resx" DependentUpon="MyTypes.cs">
```

## EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention property

If `EmbeddedResourceUseDependentUponConvention` is set to `false` in the project file, each resource manifest file name is based off the root namespace for the project and the relative path from the project root to the *.resx* file. More specifically, the generated resource manifest file name is *RootNamespace.RelativePathWithDotsForSlashes.\[Culture.]resources*. This is also the logic used to generate manifest names in .NET Core versions prior to 3.0.

> [!NOTE]
>
> - If `RootNamespace` is not defined, it defaults to the project name.
> - If `LogicalName`, `ManifestResourceName`, or `DependentUpon` metadata is specified for an `EmbeddedResource` item in the project file, this naming rule does not apply to that resource file.

## See also

- [How Manifest Resource Naming Works](https://gist.github.com/BenVillalobos/041673b9a73bec60fdc3bf0f86fae62a)
- [MSBuild properties for .NET Core SDK projects](../project-sdk/msbuild-props.md)
- [MSBuild breaking changes](../compatibility/msbuild.md)
