---
title: Standard .NET event patterns
description: Learn about .NET event patterns and how to create standard event sources and subscribe and process standard events in your code.
ms.date: 06/20/2016
ms.technology: csharp-fundamentals
ms.assetid: 8a3133d6-4ef2-46f9-9c8d-a8ea8898e4c9
---

# Standard .NET event patterns

[Previous](events-overview.md)

.NET events generally follow a few known patterns. Standardizing
on these patterns means that developers can leverage knowledge of
those standard patterns, which can be applied to any .NET event program.

Let's go through these standard patterns so you will have all
the knowledge you need to create standard event sources, and
subscribe and process standard events in your code.

## Event Delegate Signatures

The standard signature for a .NET event delegate is:

```csharp
void OnEventRaised(object sender, EventArgs args);
```

The return type is void. Events are based on delegates and are
multicast delegates. That supports multiple subscribers for any
event source. The single return value from a method doesn't scale
to multiple event subscribers. Which return value does the event
source see after raising an event? Later in this article you'll
see how to create event protocols that support event subscribers
that report information to the event source.

The argument list contains two arguments: the sender, and the event
arguments. The compile time type of `sender` is `System.Object`,
even though you likely know a more derived type that would always
be correct. By convention, use `object`.

The second argument has typically been a type that is derived from
`System.EventArgs`. (You'll see in the
[next section](modern-events.md) that this convention is no longer
enforced.) If your event type does not need any additional
arguments, you will still provide both arguments.
There is a special value, `EventArgs.Empty` that you should use to
denote that your event does not contain any additional information.

Let's build a class that lists files in a directory, or any of its
subdirectories that follow a pattern. This component raises an event
for each file found that matches the pattern.

Using an event model provides some design advantages. You can create
multiple event listeners that perform different actions when a sought
file is found. Combining the different listeners can create more
robust algorithms.

Here is the initial event argument declaration for finding a sought
file:

[!code-csharp[EventArgs](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#EventArgsV1 "Define event arguments")]

Even though this type looks like a small, data-only type, you should
follow the convention and make it a reference (`class`) type. That
means the argument object will be passed by reference, and any
updates to the data will be viewed by all subscribers. The first
version is an immutable object. You should prefer to make the
properties in your event argument type immutable. That way, one
subscriber cannot change the values before another subscriber sees
them. (There are exceptions to this, as you'll see below.)  

Next, we need to create the event declaration in the FileSearcher
class. Leveraging the `EventHandler<T>` type means that you don't
need to create yet another type definition. You simply use a generic
specialization.

Let's fill out the FileSearcher class to search for files that match
a pattern, and raise the correct event when a match is discovered.

[!code-csharp[FileSearcher](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#FileSearcherV1 "Create the initial file searcher")]

## Defining and Raising Field-Like Events

The simplest way to add an event to your class is to declare that
event as a public field, as in the preceding example:

[!code-csharp[DeclareEvent](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#DeclareEvent "Declare the file found event")]

This looks like it's declaring a public field, which would appear to
be bad object-oriented practice. You want to protect data access
through properties, or methods. While this may look like a bad
practice, the code generated by the compiler does create wrappers so
that the event objects can only be accessed in safe ways. The only
operations available on a field-like event are add handler:

[!code-csharp[DeclareEventHandler](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#DeclareEventHandler "Declare the file found event handler")]

and remove handler:

[!code-csharp[RemoveEventHandler](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#RemoveHandler "Remove the event handler")]

Note that there's a local variable for the handler. If you used
the body of the lambda, the remove would not work correctly. It would
be a different instance of the delegate, and silently do nothing.

Code outside the class cannot raise the event, nor can it perform any
other operations.

## Returning Values from Event Subscribers

Your simple version is working fine. Let's add another feature:
Cancellation.

When you raise the found event, listeners should be able to stop
further processing, if this file is that last one sought.

The event handlers do not return a value, so you need to communicate
that in another way. The standard event pattern uses the EventArgs
object to include fields that event subscribers can use to
communicate cancel.

There are two different patterns that could be used, based on the
semantics of the Cancel contract. In both cases, you'll add a boolean
field to the EventArguments for the found file event.

One pattern would allow any one subscriber to cancel the operation.
For this pattern, the new field is initialized to `false`. Any
subscriber can change it to `true`. After all subscribers have seen
the event raised, the FileSearcher component examines the boolean
value and takes action.

The second pattern would only cancel the operation if all subscribers
wanted the operation cancelled. In this pattern, the new field is
initialized to indicate the operation should cancel, and any
subscriber could change it to indicate the operation should continue.
After all subscribers have seen the event raised, the FileSearcher
component examines the boolean and takes action. There is one extra
step in this pattern: the component needs to know if any subscribers
have seen the event. If there are no subscribers, the field would
indicate a cancel incorrectly.

Let's implement the first version for this sample. You need to add a
boolean field named `CancelRequested` to the `FileFoundArgs` type:

[!code-csharp[EventArgs](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#EventArgs "Update event arguments")]

This new Field is automatically initialized to `false`, the default value for a Boolean field, so you don't cancel
accidentally. The only other change to the component is to
check the flag after raising the event to see if any of the
subscribers have requested a cancellation:

```csharp
public void List(string directory, string searchPattern)
{
    foreach (var file in Directory.EnumerateFiles(directory, searchPattern))
    {
        var args = new FileFoundArgs(file);
        FileFound?.Invoke(this, args);
        if (args.CancelRequested)
            break;
    }
}
```

One advantage of this pattern is that it isn't a breaking change.
None of the subscribers requested a cancellation before, and they still are
not. None of the subscriber code needs updating unless they want to
support the new cancel protocol. It's very loosely coupled.

Let's update the subscriber so that it requests a cancellation once
it finds the first executable:

```csharp
EventHandler<FileFoundArgs> onFileFound = (sender, eventArgs) =>
{
    Console.WriteLine(eventArgs.FoundFile);
    eventArgs.CancelRequested = true;
};
```

## Adding Another Event Declaration

Let's add one more feature, and demonstrate other language idioms
for events. Let's add an overload of the `Search` method that
traverses all subdirectories in search of files.

This could get to be a lengthy operation in a directory with many
sub-directories. Let's add an event that gets raised when each new
directory search begins. This enables subscribers to track progress,
and update the user as to progress. All the samples you've created so
far are public. Let's make this one an internal event. That means you
can also make the types used for the arguments internal as well.

You'll start by creating the new EventArgs derived class for
reporting the new directory and progress.

[!code-csharp[DirEventArgs](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#SearchDirEventArgs "Define search directory event arguments")]

Again, you can follow the recommendations to make an immutable
reference type for the event arguments.

Next, define the event. This time, you'll use a different syntax. In
addition to using the field syntax, you can explicitly create the
property, with add and remove handlers. In this sample, you won't
need extra code in those handlers, but this shows how
you would create them.

[!code-csharp[Declare event with add and remove handlers](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#DeclareSearchEvent "Declare the event with add and remove handlers")]

In many ways, the code you write here mirrors the code the compiler
generates for the field event definitions you've seen earlier. You
create the event using syntax very similar to that used for
[properties](properties.md). Notice that the handlers have different
names: `add` and `remove`. These are called to subscribe to the event,
or unsubscribe from the event. Notice that you also must declare a
private backing field to store the event variable. It is initialized
to null.

Next, let's add the overload of the `Search` method that traverses
subdirectories and raises both events. The easiest way to accomplish
this is to use a default argument to specify that you want to search
all directories:

[!code-csharp[SearchImplementation](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#FinalImplementation "Implementation to search directories")]

At this point, you can run the application calling the overload for
searching all sub-directories. There are no subscribers on the new
`DirectoryChanged` event, but using the `?.Invoke()` idiom ensures
that this works correctly.

 Let's add a handler to write a line that shows the progress in the
 console window.

[!code-csharp[Search](../../samples/snippets/csharp/events/Program.cs#Search "Declare event handler")]

You've seen patterns that are followed throughout the .NET ecosystem.
By learning these patterns and conventions, you'll be writing
idiomatic C# and .NET quickly.

Next, you'll see some changes in these patterns in the most recent
release of .NET.

[Next](modern-events.md)
